[music]
>> The earning story still looks very much
on track.
>> You have a situation where the
fundamentals actually got stronger.
>> There is still a lot of uncertainty out
there.
>> If this uncertainty can pass, I still
think there's a very good up road ahead.
>> The bull market that started in October
of 2022 has further to go.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoerdern.
Live from New York City this morning.
>> Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday within striking distance
of all-time highs. Equity markets
bouncing back almost 10% from last
month's lows as the White House is
teeing up peace talks in the next few
days. Attention turning to wrapping up
quarterly bank earnings on Wall Street.
Morgan Stanley [music] and Bank of
America up next.
>> so far have been trading and banking on
fire. Look, whatever you can say about
what's going on geopolitically,
volatility has been a good thing for
these banks and you see record quarters
coming out. Morgan Stanley should
benefit from that. Bank of America might
be the more interesting aspect of this.
A read on the consumer. So far, the look
has been resilient in the face of higher
oil prices. Do we hear [music] the same
tone coming from the leadership of Bank
of America?
>> reset has been absolutely remarkable. A
10% move off the lows for equities. A
20% move off the highs for crude. The
Strait of Hormuz still largely closed.
This market has moved on.
>> The Strait of Hormuz is closed. That
blockade, according to CENTCOM, is fully
in effect. But the president indicating
to number of reporters yesterday that he
is prepared to wind this down. And this
comes ahead of reports that potentially
we can get as soon as this weekend
another round of peace talks. I thought
it was interesting that the vice
president yesterday, J.D. Vance, said
the president wants a grand deal, a
grand bargain. How long is that going to
take? And at the same time, the market
is completely ignoring this Washington
Post report that more troops are headed
to the region.
>> meantime, how much damage has been done?
Check out the earnings. AFMH, MS.
>> [music]
>> If you have got exposure to the Middle
East consumer right now, you're getting
hammered. Elsewhere, look [music] to the
US, to the banks, City, Wells Fargo, JP
Morgan. Pick your bank right now, ask
for commentary on the consumer.
Consumer's [music] still earning, the
consumer is still spending.
>> And frankly, a lot of them point to the
fact that earnings and inflation have
increased much more than gasoline
[music] prices. So when you get a
gasoline price that's close to what
we're seeing now or above $4 a barrel $4
a gallon, a lot of the consumers can
withstand that. Yesterday, the Bank of
America consumer survey came out with
respect to spending on cards. The same
kind of tone that we've been getting all
along. This idea that there is
resilience. So at what point does it
become painful? You know, you hear
caution in these executives' tones
simply because they have to, because it
seems irresponsible if they don't, but
it doesn't seem like they actually feel
like the economy is turning over.
>> For the short term though, for the
luxury brands Jonathan mentioned, there
is some serious pain. These Middle East
shoppers are not showing [music] up to
some of these stores, and that's what we
heard from Hermes when it comes to
stores in France or Switzerland or the
United Kingdom. And this idea of having
that scarcity that Hermes is [music]
known for, well, it doesn't work if your
shoppers can't even travel to get to the
destination.
>> That is not a problem for the S&P 500,
and that's the issue for this equity
market. Semis have ripped 20% so far
this month. You want to talk about a
valuation? $800 possible valuation of
Anthropic. So this market's going to be
wide [music] open potentially for an IPO
later on this year as well. All of
that's lining up to benefit the likes of
Morgan Stanley, the likes of Bank of
America when they report later this
morning.
>> Yeah, the idea that Anthropic is getting
the offer of a valuation of $800
million, and they might $800 million,
and they might turn it down because they
might not want to raise this round of
funding. The idea that they could IPO in
October, this capital market is wide
open.
>> [music]
>> And say whatever you will, there has
been a leadership shift. You talk about
this with the semiconductors and how
they're up almost 30% in the past 10
trading days. There's also ASML coming
out and actually raising expectations
because still the investment in big tech
[music] is ongoing and an existential
risk.
>> What did Jim Cramer say
for Apollo? Take a walk. In 6 months
we'll be talking about that. We won't be
talking about all of this.
>> I'm walking a lot. [music] I'm getting
really sweaty up here.
>> Touch grass. Feeling good. Just out
there touching grass in the park. If you
see me, just know Jim Cramer sent me.
>> [music]
>> Equity futures on the S&P this morning
just about unchanged. Coming up this
hour we'll catch up with Noel Dickson of
State Street with stocks on the brink of
record highs. Susan Ball of Royce That
Energy is optimism grows over an end to
the war and David George of Baird with
big bank earnings in full swing. We
begin this hour with stocks sitting at
record highs as a relief rally takes
hold. Noel Dickson of State Street
writing despite heightened uncertainty
in the Middle East, investor positioning
and flow data clearly suggests positive
risk appetite is still alive and well.
Noel, good morning. It's good to see
you.
>> Is there a good reason to get behind
this rally?
I think so. I think there's to be, you
know, honest there there is a awful
amount of good news already priced in.
However, I do think it can continue. I
think the question is, you know, after
this situation has occurred, do we go
back to the trade we had on before or is
it going to be something a little bit
different?
And I think, you know, our perspective
is that we're going to be left with a
situation with higher commodity prices.
And then the question is, does everyone
lose or are we going to have winners and
losers? And we're more of the latter
train of thought.
And we think that there's going to be
more opportunity to be more selective.
And we think that, you know, the US for
example, it's hard to argue that they're
not going to be more insulated from a
terms of trade perspective and there'll
be some more weakness in other regions
like the UK and Eurozone. So I think you
have to be a little more selective.
>> Let's stay within the United States and
get selective there. Pre-war, semis were
doing well.
Software was not. Post-war, for the
month of April, semis have ripped,
software has struggled. Do you expect
that to continue? I do expect it to
continue. I think the hardware, the semi
story is undeniable. There's a lot of
demand. I think software we're trying to
sort through
uh what are going to be the disruptions
uh from places like Anthropic
um and and different companies.
>> [clears throat]
>> But, you know, our perspective is that,
you know, we think, you know, it's still
going to be more of the same uh and we
don't see any reason to really change
that that perspective. It seems like a
leadership has very much been Big Tech,
has very much been the semiconductors as
John mentioned. When you look at the
sigh of relief being breathed by the
entirety of markets, how much do you
need to see corporate executives talk
about actual efficiencies, actual gains
coming from some of the deployment of AI
to justify the ongoing rally?
>> Yeah, so I don't know if we need to see
immediate justification. I think it's a
clear race, I think, between the US and
China uh both I think militarily and I
think from a commercial perspective.
Um and I think the perspective is that
that's going to be ongoing.
Um I think earnings right now, I mean,
12 months forward is about 30%. So, it's
really hard to get negative, especially
after we had the correction that we did.
Um so, I think, you know, right now we
do eventually need to see uh some
revenue, but the demand is so
significant, especially in the hardware
space, that I think it it it still
instills confidence in investors to move
forward. When I think about the demand
coming from AI, and then you think about
the fact that commodity prices, as you
just said, will probably be higher. Why
has everyone moved on so quickly from
this inflationary story that could
potentially pressure yields higher and
could create a really difficult
situation for central bankers?
>> Well, when I think about the
inflationary pressures, I think you also
have to think about the growth side. So,
I think when we think about valuations,
for example, and the support from an
interest rate perspective, I think uh
investors are skeptical that central
banks will be able to hike as much as
being priced in. So, we would push back
on that. Um so, I think the growth
aspect is going to keep central banks
largely in check
in the background
and again we'll have to deal with
inflationary pressures but that was to
my point earlier. There's going to be
winners and losers and that's where I
think you have to be selective.
>> Is there also winners and losers when
you look globally because the energy
shock is really still hitting Asia as
well as Europe and we're not feeling it
as much in the United States. Yeah, so I
think it's definitely going to hit Asian
countries. I think about South Korea, I
think about Japan. They import 90% of
their energy but again that actually
brings some opportunities. So the baby
will get thrown out with the bathwater.
I think the Asia tech trade
there'll be some opportunities there
you know down the road as we get these
corrections but no question I think
Asia's very exposed and as I mentioned I
think Europe is is very exposed.
>> it take the market to care once again
about the conflict? I mean the
Washington Post this morning is talking
about sending thousands of additional
troops. Will we say look at what Trump
does also not just what he says.
>> Sure. But the market seems to be
ignoring any sort of sort of escalation.
>> Sure. So I think you need to separate
two things. The nuclear agreement and I
think opening of the Strait of Hormuz.
From a market perspective they focus
exclusively I think on the Strait of
Hormuz. Keep in mind you know for
example the JCPOA agreement with Obama
that took about two years to sort. So
that's not going to get I think resolved
anytime sooner. It'll take some time.
But the Strait of Hormuz there is
incentive I think for all sides to try
to find some resolution and I think
that's what the markets are sniffing out
and and looking forward to. And that's
the carrot for the market right now. The
president recorded an interview earlier
this week with Fox News getting some
headlines from that conversation just
moments ago. Maybe the end result will
come soon Bramer and on the blockade no
pushback from the Saudis. There was some
suggestion that there might have been
some pushback from the Saudis not seeing
that in these comments this morning.
>> No, and talking about how he sees the
end as being very close and ongoing sort
of edification of what you're seeing in
markets with respect to this sort of
seamless
effort toward a ceasefire. Look, I mean,
Emery is not wrong when she raises
skepticism. I mean, I I respect the
Debbie Downer. I respect the fact that
you can cast some cold water on this
because frankly this conflict is not
over. And you talk to any geopolitical
strategist, they say the world is
fundamentally changed. But the market
has said ultimately to the degree that
it's changed, we've moved on. President
Trump seems to be leaning on to that
given the fact that higher markets seem
to support him. The world also is
fundamentally changing so is Iran. I
think the president always says there is
a new regime, not regime change, just
change within the regime. Actually,
these are hardliners as well. And
they're going to come with the same hard
lines to the negotiating table that
their predecessors have. Also, what's
interesting is Trump says that China had
no pushback on the Hormuz blockade. I
think that is incredibly interesting
because China is the one that of course
buys all the Iranian oil that the US is
now trying to stop.
>> Crude this morning, Brent crude at 95 AT
at the front end of the futures curve,
WTI at 92. The president saying the oil
would be down to the levels it was and
and maybe lower. Now, I know the the
presidential jawbone can be effective,
but that is quite an effort to jawbone
this market a little bit lower. The only
way that they could actually transpire
would be if there was serious demand
destruction on a mass level. And that
would require some sort of decline in
economic growth. But right now, based on
the fact you've had more than 10 million
barrels a day taken offline and not
coming online anytime soon, it seems
unlikely unless you get some sort of
serious slowdown.
>> No, you get that one. Oil will be down
to the levels it was and and maybe
lower. Now, Dixon, your response to
that. Yeah, um
Don't fancy it? No, I don't fancy
[laughter] it. No, Dixon is straight
up. No, thank you, buddy. Thank you.
Appreciate it. Let's get you an update
on news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. You Hyra has more. Hey, You Hyra.
Hi, John.
The US and Iran are looking to arrange a
second round of peace talks in the
coming days, sources [music] telling us
here at Bloomberg. The objective is to
hold more discussions before a ceasefire
expires next week. One proposal is to
[music] return to Pakistan, though other
venues are being considered.
Israel and Lebanese officials meeting
for the first time in more than 30 years
for high-level talks in Washington. The
Israeli ambassador calling it, quote, a
victory for [music] sanity, even as
officials play down hopes for an end to
the war with Hezbollah.
And prosecutors making a surprise visit
to the Fed's offices this week amid the
DOJ's investigation into Fed Chair Jay
Powell.
>> [music]
>> Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
officials tried to enter the
construction sites but were denied entry
because [music] of clearance protocols.
That's the Bloomberg brief, John.
Zahira, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, the
White House tearing up peace talks.
I think it's close to over here. I I
mean, I view it as very close to over.
We'll see what happens. I think they
want to make a deal very badly. Up next
on the program, we'll catch up with
Colonel Wayne Sanders of Bloomberg
Intelligence live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
The rally stalling out just a little bit
unchanged so far this morning on the S&P
500. Unchanged on the Nasdaq, but what a
move we've seen so far this month.
[music] Only one down day so far for the
month of April on the S&P 500. A rally
off the low of about 10% and within
striking distance of all-time highs on
the S&P 500. Now, that's at the index
level. If you look at the energy sector,
the energy sector is basically wiped out
all of the gains
on the S&P 500 that we saw through the
[music] month of March. That's amazing.
Especially given the fact that oil
prices haven't come down to where we
were before March. So, ultimately people
are looking at this and saying it's
pretty much a wash for them given the
fact that they've got destruction to
some of their facilities in the Middle
East and are not necessarily going to be
profiting so much more from high prices.
The market is treating this as if it's a
blip
>> [music]
>> and we can all move on. Brent crude at
96, right now WTI at 92. And as Savannah
said this morning, the White House
teeing up peace talks.
I think it's close to over. I mean, I
view it as very close to over. You know
what?
If I pulled up stakes right now, it
would take them 20 years to rebuild
their country.
And we're not finished. We'll see what
happens. I think they want to make a
deal very badly. So, here's the latest
this morning, the president signaling
he's ready to wind down the war in Iran
saying peace talks could restart in the
next 2 days. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
has the latest from Washington. Good
morning, Tyler.
Hey John, good morning. Well, our
reporting maintains that both sides are
seeking another round of in-person
negotiations ahead of next Tuesday's
ceasefire deadline, but that means that
things have to get going quickly because
President Trump indicated earlier this
week that the timetable for a deal has
not changed and suggested in an
interview yesterday that he may now
offer any sort of extension. There are
signs that Iran is potentially trying to
avoid some escalation here at least in
the short term as well. As Bloomberg
News reported yesterday that the country
is considering a temporary halt on
shipments and maritime activity that
could violate the US blockade. Though,
at the same time Iranian state media did
report last night that an Iranian
supertanker made its way through the
Strait of Hormuz, though that has yet to
be confirmed by the US. Instead, we got
a statement overnight from CENTCOM
saying that all commercial traffic to
and from Iranian ports has been halted.
As we're getting more details, a US
official telling us that the military is
stationing its vessels in the Gulf of
Oman instead of directly near the Strait
in a bid to give the US more
flexibility. This blockade isn't the
only means of pressure that the US is
looking to deploy ahead of potential
dialogue, including the Washington Post
now reporting that additional troops are
being sent to the region. And the US
Treasury threatening additional
secondary sanctions on any financial
institutions that aid the country. John,
as you all know, this comes after
yesterday the Treasury announced it was
not renewing that 30-day waiver for
purchases of Iranian crude already at
sea, but I will point out that Bloomberg
News is reporting new this morning that
nearly 4 million of those barrels just
arrived in India ahead of that waiver
expiring. This after just yesterday
Indian Prime Minister Modi called
President Trump about the war in Iran.
As we get these more headlines that the
president has been speaking to world
leaders about this, including breaking
in the last few minutes, President Trump
saying that China hasn't taken issue
with the Strait being closed so far.
>> Talia Kennedy with the latest in
Washington. Talia, thank you. Talia's
right. According to the president, China
hasn't pushed back. The Saudis haven't
pushed back. Months ago, it's starting
to sound like the Iranian military is
pushing back.
>> Right, the Iranian military saying that
they the United States needs to get out
of the blockade and potentially what
they have continuously said is there
will be escalation because of this. They
had said that if you block our ports,
we're going to go after your partners'
ports in the region as well. To discuss,
joining us now is Colonel Wince Sandal,
the senior defense research analyst at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Colonel, welcome
back to the program, sir. How fragile is
this ceasefire?
Well, it's pretty fragile. I think if
you look at the next 24 to 48 hours,
Iran's responses are going to be key
here. The The first 24 hours in the
blockade, I'm sure it's just Iran trying
to be able to figure out where they can
position forces necessary if they need
to respond. And so I think a lot of the
tell there is going to be on whether or
not any of those strikes actually take
place over the next 24 to 48 hours
against some of the Gulf states as well
as US military bases in that region as
well. Would Iran do this within the Gulf
of Oman and the Strait of Hormuz or
would they actually try to get the
Houthis involved in the Red Sea?
I think they could do either one. I
think that if they get the Houthis
involved, obviously it gives them a
little more plausible deniability in the
region. But when they keep things
localized, if they're trying to keep it
US focused, they're trying to keep it
against what we're doing on the
blockade, then they're going to want to
have some type of show of force against
either US or anybody that they're trying
to escort through. What do you make of
the fact the Pentagon, according to the
Washington Post this morning, is sending
thousand more troops to the region?
So, I mean, I I think that one is
obviously a it's a leverage that the
president can use. But also on the
military side, it could be to shore up
additional boarding and interdiction
teams, which could be part of the
blockade. Seizure and inspection of
vessels actually takes quite a few
people to do that. The 11th and 13th
Marine Expeditionary Units are very good
at that. But if these are reinforcing of
that, it might also be hardening bases
in the region. So, I think the real tell
there is going to be what type of
logistics follows along. If it is a lot
of army logistics, you might be looking
at more of hardening of the US bases in
the region. It might also just be
something along the lines of Military
Sealift Command, which are the ones who
actually provide kind of a conveyor belt
of
uh of resources and fuel and all that to
the ships in the region. That could also
be a play in this as well. Colonel, I've
seen a lot of commentary from different
officials talking about who holds the
cards. It seems like everyone's talking
about that. Is it the US holding the
cards? Is it Iran holding more cards?
What's your sense of the points of
leverage right now heading into further
negotiations at a time where we still
pretty much seem to be at a stalemate.
Yeah, so military normally looks at it
there are four leverages of of national
power. You have diplomatic, information,
military, and economic. So, on the
diplomatic side, both sides are playing
trying to apply that same level of
pressure to be able to do it. On the
information campaign, I would say Iran
normally does pretty well on that
because of the asymmetric threat. They
don't have to strike a whole lot, they
just have to have something on fire to
be able to create some chaos in the
market and create chaos around the
world. Militarily, the US has dominated
in that region, but the IRGC does have
capability. And then economic, you've
seen a lot of these pieces play out over
the last month as well. How much do you
really see China playing a part in this?
We know that President Trump was saying
that China did not push back regarding
the blockade. There are questions and
there have been reports about China
supplying weaponry to Iran, potentially
even a new air missile defense system.
What's your sense of what the reality is
and what's fiction?
Yeah, I I find that very, very hard to
believe.
If especially if you're talking about
exquisite air defense systems, because
these things aren't small and the US has
eyes in and out of Iran pretty much
across the board. So, you're not going
to see some large, you know, aircraft
coming in that's dropping off these
types of supplies that's not going to
require a US response. So, I think
that's probably one of the biggest ones.
I've seen other ones reports that are
dealing with a lot more of the smaller
shoulder fired weapons. While I still
think that's very risky for China to do
because if it is attributed back to them
and there is a lot of proof there that
obviously puts them in a in a worse
position on the national stage. But if
they are trying to smuggle those in,
those smaller type weapons, those
shoulder fired stinger type missiles and
things of that nature, those types of
weapons are small enough to be able to
get through onesies and twosies, but
you're not going to be able to put it
together
at the level the air defense systems
that some of the reporting's putting out
there. It's not just weaponry though.
The Financial Times this morning saying
Iran used Chinese spy satellite imagery
and these companies to target US bases.
At the same time the president seems to
be striking more friendly tone with what
Beijing is saying to Washington.
Um, how concerned are you about how much
China is really helping Iran in
targeting US service members?
So, you know, when it comes to China, I
know we had that uh talk earlier about
Russian intelligence, uh you know,
supporting Iran as well. I think part of
it we we all need to remember too is
that a lot of that is dual-use
technology that could be tied to China's
civilian side as opposed to dealing with
the the the Chinese People's Liberation
Army or the Ministry of State Security
or anything like that from from that
perspective. So, I think that it is
definitely being leveraged. I think that
uh Iran is going to use anything and
everything they possibly can. And
because of how good technology with
satellites has become, even on the
commercial or on the military side, it
has allowed an advantage, a
technological advantage for pretty much
everyone to catch up somewhat to the
technological advantage of the United
States when it comes to satellite
imagery. Colonel, you're in a different
seat to the seat that a lot of people on
Wall Street are sitting in. They're
focused on markets and the comments
coming from the president, some
anticipatory asset class. Basically,
they're seeing the president looking for
an off-ramp. This market's moved on.
What guides you away from presidential
statements? What guides you and your
thoughts about how things are
progressing?
I would probably say when I look at the
military strikes against some of the
Gulf state neighbors, that that is
something that has started to wind down
obviously during the ceasefire. It went
from 149 strikes the day before the
ceasefire down to seven. You saw a
handful of
of optics a little bit during each of
the times. But not to the same level
that it had been for the first four
months. So, I think or excuse me, four
weeks. But what I what I what I continue
to look at right now is some of the
logistics tail, where we're actually
going, the transition of the US military
into the types of the weapons that
they're using. And then at that point in
time also the response for some of the
other folks in the region, the Gulf
states that are playing a part in this
and starting to put additional pressure.
I think all of those are good telltale
signs that things are moving in the
right direction. But Iran having an
asymmetric threat is always that that
card that they can play at that last
second.
>> And that threat certainly still lingers.
Four weeks felt like four months without
a doubt. Colonel, thank you. Colonel
Wayne Sanders there of Bloomberg
Intelligence and what guides him and how
he's thinking about this war. Yeah, and
right now it seems like it's less bad
news also on the geopolitical front.
Things are not escalating getting worse.
And that's the reason why Wall Street is
moving on. There are frictions though
that are going to be long-lasting. And
this really is the ultimate question.
The Strait of Hormuz may never be open
again the way that it used to be. What
does that look like? And the fact that
people have kind of moved on is notable
given the potential inflationary
pressures.
>> People have moved on, but we should note
the shock in Asia is really getting
very, very dire. Right now you have
Pakistan that is dealing with controlled
blackouts in the evening cuz they want
to make sure they're controlling the
price of electricity. For the first time
ever this morning India received Iranian
crude barrels. Well, guess what? That
waiver's ending and this blockade means
no more [music] oil's coming through.
>> rationing across Asia. It's been brutal
for them, I know. Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Susan Bell
of Rystad Energy with crude trading back
below 100. Plus you have Rachelle Akoy
as she's got your morning movers.
Broadcom [music] rising on a new chip
partnership with Meta. That stock is up
by 2.5% live from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
We are wrapping up quarterly bank
earnings on Wall Street this morning in
about 15 minutes from now we should hear
from Bank of America, Brian Moynihan and
the team. In the next hour we should
also hear from Morgan Stanley, Ted
[music] Pick and the team at 7:30
Eastern time. Bramo catching up with Ted
Pick later on this morning. So look out
for that in the 10:00 hour, I believe,
Lisa. A little bit later this morning.
>> And really the the key questions that
everyone [music] has is how How is that
pipeline? How much can capital markets
remain open? The other interesting note
is how much all of the executives have
completely dismissed private credit
concerns. They're all coming out and
saying, "Ultimately, this is not
systemic. We have it under control." I
expect the same there. And then just
going forward, how much are consumers
really feeling the heat given the fact
that ultimately they had a lot of
spending power going in and Americans
like to spend.
>> Ten pic, catching up with Lisa Link to
this morning. Don't miss that 10:45
Eastern time. You're right, crude market
at the moment pulling back just a touch
on the S&P 500 negative by a little more
than a tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq down by
0.2. What a run on the Nasdaq. Ten
consecutive days of gains, the longest
run since November 2021. That little bit
of weakness this morning, some headlines
moments ago from Iran pushing back on
the blockade and really exposing just
how fragile this ceasefire might be. The
Iranian military spokesman, according to
Iranian state TV, is basically saying
that this constitutes a breakage of the
ceasefire terms. They also say if it
continues, Iranian armed forces, the
IRGC, will not permit any exports or
imports through the continued the
Persian Gulf, the Sea of Oman, or the
Red Sea.
>> [music]
>> Basically saying we are going to go
after all of these other parts of our
proxy regime that have been dormant for
the past six weeks.
>> That's boosting crude this morning up by
1.8% on Brent on WTI. Both of those
contracts, the front end of the futures
curve, closing below 100 for five
consecutive [music] days now. That's
bringing this market just a little bit
of comfort, but a boost from the
headlines we've seen in the past 15
minutes. Better scores, let's get you
some single names, some morning movers.
Yohai has some more. Morning, Yohai. Hi,
John. We start with Broadcom. Those
shares are rising 2.6% [music]
as a company expands its partnership
with Meta building custom AI chips. It's
part of a multi-billion dollar effort to
build out more than a gigawatt of
computing power and it speaks to
something larger that we've been hearing
from [music] guests that the AI build
out is alive and well. Deals still
getting done. We keep hearing about them
even as this market grapples with the
Middle [music] East, we are also seeing
shares of Nike moving higher in the
pre-market up 2.3% [music]
on a show of confidence from the top
board director Tim Cook and CEO Elliott
Hill buying the stock, putting about a
million dollars to work. It's a show of
support as Nike goes through this rough
stretch, [music] but we've seen this
type of buying before and the stock is
still down some 30% year-to-date.
[music]
And we end on shares of Robinhood rising
a 4 and a quarter percent after a big
shift from the SEC. The agency approving
changes that remove key limits on day
trading, including that $25,000
minimum balance. So, it's now easier for
retail traders
to retail investors to trade more
actively and that is a boon for the
likes of Robinhood since retail makes up
such a large portion of its users. John.
[music] Yohana, thank you. Thanks for
the update. More from Yohana in about 15
minutes time. And I'll write down this
morning, President Donald Trump
suggesting talks with Iran could resume
this week. A ceasefire between the two
nations expires next Wednesday. The
president did not say if Vice President
J.D. Vance would continue to lead
negotiations. Elsewhere, the Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent saying the
global tariffs struck down by the
Supreme Court could be reinstated.
We will be
implementing or conducting Section 301
studies so that the tariffs um
could be back in place uh at the
previous level uh by
uh
beginning of July. The president
imposing a temporary 10% tariff
following the high court's decision. The
levy set to expire July 24th. And
finally, Anthropic drawing investor
offers that could value the company at
more than $800 billion. It's not clear
if the AI startup will accept investor
terms. Anthropic previously discussing a
listing as early as October.
>> Yeah, in the last round of funding,
Anthropic was valued at $350 billion.
That gives you a sense of more than the
doubling that this $800 billion
valuation comes into play. It comes
after the mythos experience that we all
had, which I would just want to add,
it's really notable that after Anthropic
came out and said, "We're going to
release something only to a couple
people because it's so dangerous should
it fall into the wrong hands." Guess
who's doing the same thing? OpenAI.
They're about to roll out something only
to a few people because they too have
something. Guess what? We too have
something that could be dangerous. So,
watch out.
>> Right. So, they come out with this thing
that everyone wants their hands on and
now it's like, "Oh, wow. Their valuation
is so much higher." I find the US
government relationship with Anthropic
right now fascinating. On one hand,
they're fighting intensely with the DoD
and we had the Under Secretary Emil
Michael on after he basically said that
Dario Amodei had a god complex, then the
Treasury Secretary last night hailed
hailed what Anthropic was doing and
calling it a revolutionary step that'll
keep America ahead of China.
>> This industry has such a huge branding
problem right now that they need to
address.
And it's exacerbated by the leaders in
the positions that they are at the
companies that you talked about. And I'm
not sure what they're going to do about
it between now and the IPO. I'm sure the
kind of comments they make at the moment
help increase the valuations of their
firms going into those IPOs that people
expect later this year, but it certainly
doesn't help consumer attitudes and I
would say attitudes of the electorate at
large towards these companies. And that
could expose them further down the line
when the people that represent those
electorates will be setting the
regulation around those companies and
the taxes they'll have to pay as well.
>> Yeah, and not to
tie too many things together, but this
is also related to the recent disruption
that we're seeing in energy markets
because energy bills are already going
up. And then if you think about how much
electricity costs are going to go up for
any regions that are tied to some of
these big hyperscalers, that's going to
become increasingly a political issue.
Let's turn back to the energy story.
Crude rising after Iran warned the US
against continuing its naval blockade
saying it would violate the terms of the
ceasefire. Susan Bell of Rystad Energy
writing Hormuz will reopen, but the
question is how much pain the market
absorbs in the meantime. Susan joins us
now for more. Susan, good morning and
welcome to the studio. Thank you so
much.
>> Let's get into how much pain we're
experiencing right now. Just describe
what's happening in physical markets.
Well, the physical markets are extremely
stressed and I think you know, a lot of
focus is on
the ice Brent price,
but the ice Brent price is a cash
settled market, right? It's not a
physically settled market and really
what if you want to see what the pain
is, look at dated Brent. And dated Brent
premiums to ice Brent are in the order
of 25. Yesterday the market closed out
with dated Brent at I think $30 higher
than ice Brent. So, the true physical
markets are extremely stressed. Do you
expect that to turn around anytime soon?
Because this market, and when I say this
market, this equity market has moved on
really, really quickly. Right. No, I
don't. I mean, we really do need to see
flows established out of the Strait of
Hormuz before the physical markets can
start to rebalance. I do you know, I
think the reason why the financial
markets that the crude oil financial
markets have been relatively stable over
the past couple of days is that
we have yet to see Iran retaliate. Now,
the US
the Pentagon yesterday said that they
successfully blocked four four vessels
or at least four vessels turned around
on their command. But then there's
conflicting news coming out of some of
the the shipping the ship tracking
agencies that are saying, well, actually
there was one
vessel that was loaded at an Iranian
port that was able to get through the
blockade. So, you know, there's there's
a lot of
really conflicting information out there
and so far Iran has not retaliated,
but the the news this morning that they
do intend to retaliate if their trade
does get blocked, that would amp markets
up all over again. Let's say there isn't
a massive escalation, that things kind
of stay where they are for a number of
weeks and then slowly get a little bit
better. Does it make sense to you that
December dated contracts for Brent are
at $82.49?
Um, it does. You know, if if there is
not a massive escalation and if the
Strait of Hormuz takes its time to
reopen, it does make sense that dated
Brent or that that the the Brent
contract is so elevated in December
because what's happening right now is
we're we're digging a hole in
inventories. And when the supply
recovers, a lot of that volume has to go
back into restocking. Right? So, it's
not that we're going to see the markets
collapse the minute we start to see
flows coming out of of the Strait of
Hormuz. I thought you're going to say
that it should be a lot higher. So, that
was where I was kind of heading. So,
that's sort of
one of the questions that people have.
We're focused very much on the oil and
the energy space. Is that the real
disruption that you think is going to be
truly problematic
for the global economy? Or do you think
that some of the other disruptions,
whether it's agriculture, whether it's
the metals sector, could be potentially
worse? I I think that um
you know, energy is a it's almost a
human right. Um, and and that is going
to be the the most painful impact of all
of this, but I do believe that there is
if if we don't start to see something
happening in the ag space, the fact that
fertilizers so are so expensive and
effectively unavailable for some some
nations because it's unaffordable,
this could move into food scarcity.
Which which is
which is very concerning. Well, what
about things like LPG, which India needs
to cook every single meal? Absolutely.
And LPG is is a significant issue,
particularly for for India. They had
resolved their immediate concerns by
negotiating transit for vessels through
the Strait of Hormuz and of course, you
know, the the Trump administration is
saying they are not going to block
navigation for for trade that is not
tied to Iran. So India should still be
able to get their LPG, but of course if
Iran retaliates, that upends everything.
And if if Iran retaliates and the
Houthis get involved and start to impact
that um
flow out of the Red Sea, that puts even
more pressure on Asia because so much of
their crude oil is coming from that
direction now. This morning India
actually got 4 million barrels from Iran
from that
general license that the Treasury had 3
weeks ago that they were unsanctioning
Iranian oil at sea. Yes. How long does
it take for a ship to go from the Strait
of Hormuz to a port basically needing if
it's blockade really started earnest
yesterday? When do you think we could
see even more physical disruption?
So I think the the average days of
transit for from the Strait of Hormuz
into Asia is
you know, 15 to 20 days. It depends. I
mean if they're going all the way to
China, it's longer. India it would be
shorter. So
if
you know, Asia has already seen the fact
that they're they're not getting any oil
right now. There was oil on water
through the first 20-25 days of March,
but now there's no oil on water. Susan,
it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. It sounds like a doom and
gloom conversation relative to the
enthusiasm elsewhere on the stock
market, but this is real. That's what's
happening in physical markets right now.
Well, that's the reason why as much as
you feel doomy and gloomy, I think a lot
of people are on the same page. It's
just that markets are saying what is the
pain threshold in which the global
economy can move on and people are
taking the most rosy scenario at face
value.
>> Susan bander of Rystad Energy. Susan,
thank you once again. This headline from
AP just crossing that mediators are
moving closer to extending the US Iran
ceasefire. That headline crossing just
moments ago that mediators are moving
closer to extending the US Iran
ceasefire. Some conversation about that
in the last week. We'll keep an eye on
that. Crude still elevated close to 97
on Brent. Earnings from Bank of America
just around the corner. Before we get
there, let's get you some top stories,
some headlines with your Bloomberg
brief. Yohara has more. Hey Yohara. Hi
John. [music]
President Donald Trump signaling he's
ready to wind down the war with Iran.
Trump telling US news outlets that peace
talks could resume in the next two days.
The president saying [music] Iran now
has a different, less radical regime.
A confirmation hearing has been set for
President Donald Trump's nominee for Fed
chair, Kevin Warsh. [music] He will face
the Senate Banking Committee at 10:00
a.m. next Tuesday. Senator Tim Scott
expects the DOJ to drop [music] its
investigation into the Fed's renovation
project, clearing the way for Warsh to
be confirmed.
And Snap is laying off roughly 1,000
full-time employees or 16%
of its global [music] workforce. In a
memo to employees early this morning,
the CEO said the cuts are necessary for
Snap to boost efficiency and
profitability. [music]
He also cited improvements in AI
technology that let Snap employees move
more quickly. That's your Bloomberg
brief, [music] John.
>> Yohara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, mixed
results from the big banks.
There is still a lot of uncertainty out
there, but should the hostilities in the
Middle East start to die down and we get
this resolved sometime in the second
quarter, that points to a very healthy
second half of the year for the banks.
In just a moment, we'll break down the
results from Bank of America with David
George of Baird. Plus, we'll get you the
latest on a US Iran ceasefire. AP
reporting [music] that they they agree
in principle on extending that truce.
More on that headline and the latest
results [music] from Bank of America in
just a moment.
>> [music]
>> We've got two things to do here, the
latest on Iran and the US and then we'll
break down the results from Bank of
America as well. Let's start with the
latest on the US and Iran. This from AP
moments ago. They've given in principle
an agreement to extend [music] the
truce. The latest from the US and Iran
according to AP just moments ago. So, in
the equity market there were some very
small losses. We've erased them. We're
just about unchanged on the S&P 500. In
the commodity market there was a boost
to Brent and to WTI. We've erased some
of those gains. Brent crude down to
about 96, WTI at 92. The truce set to
expire in the next week or so [music]
and this looks like the US and Iran is
getting closer, in principle at least,
to agreeing to extend it.
>> It's supposed to end on April 22nd. So,
we'll see how long that they're willing
to in this idea in principle extend that
truce. It also comes at the time where
the Pakistani Prime Minister has
announced he will be making a visit this
weekend to some Gulf countries like
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, as well as Turkey.
So, for him to then go back to
Islamabad, have consultations with these
other mediators that have been trying to
bring an end to the hostilities, that's
actually tracks and makes sense. It's
interesting though this comes after the
Iranian military said, "If you're going
to continue this blockade, we view that
as essentially ending of the ceasefire
and we're going to go after some ports."
>> The market, I think it's fair to say,
focusing on one of those headlines and
not the other given the 10% move we've
seen off the lows in the equity market.
[music]
I mentioned the second piece of news we
need to cover, results from Bank of
America also crossing just moments ago.
That stock is up by 2% in the
pre-market. With the latest,
>> [music]
>> here's Dani for more. Hey, Dani. Hey,
John. It has a similar flavor, I must
say, to Goldman Sachs. That is a big
beat on equities and a really large
number for equity trading, but a slight
miss on fixed trading. So, the numbers
themselves, equities, comes in at 2.83
billion. The expectation was just over 2
and 1/2 billion. That is a record
quarter from Bank of America when it
comes to equity trading, which means
their overall trading numbers a slight
miss because of a miss on fixed 6.3
billion dollars. That still is a record
quarter for trading. Fixed comes in at 3
and 1/2 billion dollars. The estimate
was for 3.8 billion dollars. So, that is
where we are seeing a miss in their
trading numbers. But again, it reflects
a really strong first quarter for all of
Wall Street given the volatility and the
results on the trading desk. When it
comes to their net interest income, that
is a beat, too, 15.75 billion dollars.
The estimate was for 15.37
billion dollars. It's something the
company had been very optimistic about.
Their co-president not that long ago was
guiding towards at least 7% growth in
that interest income. So, we expected
that to be a strong number. I would just
flag what they're saying about credit.
We've seen the banks, many of them for
the first time, break out their private
credit exposure. Bank of America, no
exception in this regard, breaking out
that they have 20 billion dollars worth
of exposure to private credit. That
would actually put them in the smallest
camp of all of the banks we've heard
from so far. Just a reminder, City 22
billion, Wells 36 billion, JP Morgan 50
billion. So, Bank of America showing
that they have less exposure to private
credit than their banking peers.
Finally, just some of the commentary
we're getting from Brian Moynihan,
saying, "We remain watchful of evolving
risks. However, we saw healthy client
activity, including solid consumer
spending and stable asset quality,
indicating a resilient American
economy." So, something we've heard from
other executives. Everything looks good
for us, but there are evolving risks.
Danny, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Hermes and LVMH have been beaten
up in the last 24 hours. But if they've
got a store near a Wall Street bank and
this keeps up, I think they're going to
be okay. The latest headline from Bank
of America, record equity sales and
trading revenue. Over at Goldman, we had
a Wall Street record for equity trading
revenue. Over at JP Morgan, traders
posted their best ever quarterly revenue
at City. The highest quarterly trading
call since the financial crisis. So,
these guys have been busy over the past
3 months. Yeah, the volatility has been
a good thing when it comes to their
returns. You did see, as Danny was
saying, Bank of America miss slightly on
the fixed income currencies and
commodities trading. Nonetheless, still
coming in with 3.5 billion dollars of
revenue versus the expected 3.78 billion
dollars. The takeaway also very much the
consumer is solid and the US economy is
chugging along. At what point is the
volatility that's
fueling trading and sales potentially
stymie the pipeline that has been
fueling also record banking fees. And
that is maybe a tension and maybe not as
people look to a brighter future for
these banks.
>> Let's get to David George of David,
welcome to the program. You've seen the
results from some of the big players.
Can this keep up? And why aren't you as
bullish as some on the street are on
some of these names?
Good morning, John. Thanks for for
having me. Yeah, these numbers look
pretty good. We're kind of just
processing them as you are in real time
here. But uh as you say, they look
pretty good across the board. Capital
markets
was very strong. We had a lot of
volatility in oil, gold, silver, and
rates throughout the quarter. And uh
obviously BofA uh benefited from that as
did some of the other other money
centers. In terms of the stocks, there
was a window to buy a couple of these
maybe at the beginning of the war. And
we upgraded a handful of the regional
banks
during that period of time. But we still
think that the risk reward trade-off is
better uh in some of these regional
banks like a Huntington, Fifth Third,
PNC, and Citizens, for example. And we
just did see PNC, for example, uh report
earnings and raise their full year uh
net interest income estimate. I'm just
wondering, have we put to bed some of
the concerns about private credit? Danny
was talking about how all the banks are
breaking out their exposure. Uh Bank of
America came out with a relatively low
exposure. Their net charge-offs are
lower than expected. Is there a sort of
a waning in interest and concern about
this area.
Yeah, you know, it it's really going to
be headline dependent, but we've been of
the view
that market participants are maybe over
concerned overly concerned
Lisa as it relates to private credit and
again, I think it's important and we
heard this throughout the quarter that
the big guys and even some of the
regionals were going to kind of size
this private credit exposure to make
market participants maybe a little more
comfortable around the the exposures and
actually actual size and and as these
companies report these are one to two
percent of total loans and again, Wells
is almost a two true trillion dollar
balance sheet same with BofA and these
are
20 to 30 billion dollar loans and again,
the structures of these are also very
low risk. So from our perspective those
fears are over blown. The bigger fear
around credit is a function of how how
how long does oil stay here? If oil is
elevated for an extended period of time,
it's a concern around the consumer
potentially as well as just how it makes
its way into inflation and the impact on
corporate profit margins. David just
based on the big banks not necessarily
the regionals and we still have Morgan
Stanley yet to report. Who's been the
winner so far in your eyes?
Honestly, I'd say JPM and BofA probably
had the best quarters obviously as you
mentioned Wells had a tougher quarter.
They they they reaffirmed the outlook
for the full year, but they missed our
pre-provision which is basically kind of
your pre-credit earnings number by four
to five percent. And I think it's also
important to note that the stocks came
in relatively hot. We have erased all of
the the the war fear and and losses
going into earnings. So we've seen
almost a 10 to 15% move in these stocks.
So they came in a little hot, but we
think that JP so far has had the best
quarter excellent capital, excellent
core trends and and a great outlook as
well. David always great to hear from
you and thanks for making time for us. I
know how busy you are on a morning like
this morning. David George there of Bank
of America breaking down the latest
results. This is what we're seeing at
Bank of America. I'm very interested in
how the consumer's doing right now.
We've heard from a range of banks that
everything's okay. Just to break out the
details from BFA. Consumer banking up
21%.
Payments up 5%. Consumer credit debit
spend up 7%. Deposits are up, loans have
grown. When you look across the bank
right now, that speaks to an economy
that's still doing well. Better than
okay. And I'd say we've heard that on
repeat from several banks across Wall
Street over the last week.
>> And even when they've gotten pushback
from analysts saying, "What about higher
gasoline prices that offset the one big
beautiful bill and any kind of tax
refund that people get?" What they've
all said, led by Jamie Dimon, is they
can absorb this and then some. And what
you just saw in the Citigroup consumer
spending pulse,
again, just really strong across the
board with an expectation that even
retail will start to do better. Yeah,
Brian Moynihan saying he sees a
resilient American economy. They all
continue to say that. What's going on in
gasoline prices, potentially
trickle-down effects of diesel, when it
comes to other products like your food,
is not hitting the consumer right now,
or the consumer at least is able to make
these decisions and weather the storm.
Stock is positive in the premarket by
some 6, 7/10 of 1%. One more bank to go,
Morgan Stanley, in the next hour. So
far, so good though for Wall Street.
Bank earnings are fine based on what
we've heard so far. On top of that,
we're looking at extending a truce
between the US and Iran based on
headlines from AP just moments ago. The
more you can take the temperature down
and put that in the rearview mirror, the
more people will focus on how good
earnings are, and so far, so good, as
you said, with respect to both the
outlook as well as the read on the
American consumer.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Beata Mandi of Citi, Ed Mills of
Raymond James, Gerard Cassidy of RBC,
and George Wunderlin of Schroder's
[music] Capital. From New York City this
morning, good morning. The second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance. Up next.
>> [music]
>> There is scope for inflation to go
higher.
>> Base case is that you'll stay around 3%.
>> We in the markets accept that a 2%
inflation [music] target isn't met.
>> There are cracks in this economy.
There's some other kinds of tailwinds
that are holding things [music] up.
Longer term, things have been quite
stable.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
The scores, the price [music] action
looks like this. Equity futures just
about unchanged on the S&P 500 within 1%
of all-time highs on the S&P 500
following a 10% rally off the lows on
the S&P. 10 days of gains on the Nasdaq.
A 10-day [music] winning run, the
longest since 2021. In the crude market,
with 10% moves on equities off the lows,
[music] we've had 20% moves off the
highs on crude. Brent this morning at
96, WTI 92. A conversation, a report
from AP [music] that the US and Iran is
close to extending this truce.
>> Yeah, which would be a balm to the ears
of so many people on Wall Street who
already have declared mission
accomplished. Ultimately, it would
indicate the kicking the can down the
road means no further escalation, at
least not in the near term. That's part
of the reason why people have moved on
and looked to earnings, which have been
pretty good. Actually, they've been
better than pretty good. And looking to
the tech investments that once again
seems to be the ballast to this economy.
>> This report signals that they want this.
Kicking the can down the road, keep the
détente. Right now, living in almost
purgatory. No fighting, but no true
peace. [music] If you look more into the
AP report, though, there is one official
speaking to the AP that says before the
ceasefire ends on April 22nd, three main
sticking points they want to get
through. What are those three main
sticking points? Oh, Iran's nuclear
deal, the Strait of Hormuz, and wartime
damages. None of that is going to happen
before April 22nd.
>> Stop spoiling the stock party.
That's how people feel this morning,
just as you speak.
>> getting a lot of panicky messages from
people like Neil Dutta.
>> Look, in fairness to you, that is what's
happening in the physical oil market.
>> [music]
>> The Strait of Hormuz still largely
closed. Physical prices, there are
shortages across Asia, we're seeing them
build. The Europeans are worried because
they've had their last deliveries of
some oil products, and they [music] know
that nothing is coming yet.
And there is this hope that in the
future it will. And this market
continues to take comfort from the shape
of the futures curve,
>> [music]
>> and how depressed prices are looking
further out.
>> I just find it challenging when Pakistan
literally overnight is there suspending
[music] electricity supply for about two
hours every single day. In Asia, you
have individuals who are not going out
to work. The government is saying you
need to stay home. What you described
what's happening in Europe, they know
that they're on the edge of their last
products being delivered, especially
[music] things like jet fuel. And
they're having meetings because they
need to do something cuz consumers are
very angry. We're a little bit more
insulated here, and I think the market
[music] also takes comfort that the
president of the United States at least
is signaling this is the direction of
travel he wants. He wants an off-ramp.
Right [music] now, we're looking at
earnings as well. Bank of America in the
pre-market high by 0.9% in early
trading. Every bank we've looked at,
Goldman, record trading call. Trading
records over at JP Morgan [music] and
Citi, more of the same from Bank of
America, that name up 1%.
>> You can tie these stories together. Why
is the market so sanguine at a time of
some potential real pain in the physical
commodities market? Because this market
is awash with liquidity, capital markets
are wide open, people are getting deals
done done, and Bank of America, Citi,
Goldman, JP Morgan, all minting money,
and that is really the story, and
frankly, that is the underpinning story
of the strength [music]
in a US economic story that's tied to
artificial intelligence and consumers
who still have jobs and still have
money.
>> Morgan Stanley reporting linked to this
hour. We should get those results around
7:30 Eastern time. So, look out for
that. Coming up this [music] hour, we'll
also catch up with Beata Manthey of Citi
with stocks within 1% of record highs.
We'll speak to Ed Mills of Raymond James
as the US pushes for a grand bargain
with Iran. And Joe Cassidy of RBC as
Morgan Stanley closes out big bank
earnings on Wall Street. We begin this
hour with stocks nearing all-time highs.
Beata Manthey of Citi with a year-end
S&P 500 target of 7,700 upgrading US
equities to overweight on a quote
quality defensive tilt. Beata joins us
now for more. Beata, good to see you.
Welcome to New York. Welcome to the
studios. Fantastic to have you with us.
>> to be here. Let's get into this call.
Overweight US equities, what's
underpinning that?
So, we've been advocates of the
diversification away from the US for
over a year. And of course, that was
based on the broadening of the EPS EPS
coming from broad set of sectors, more
cyclically driven. And that's
the assumption of what we've been seeing
in the data was telling us this would
continue into this year. And of course,
the war has happened.
And with markets almost at all-time
highs, and it's not only S&P, it's more
cyclical markets like Europe as well,
you have to step back and ask yourself,
has anything changed? Even if the war
finishes today, which of course it
won't, has there been other damage done
to the economy or is going to just
trickle through trickle through damage
to consumer? And your assumption right
now should be for
estimates for cyclical earnings are most
likely too high. So, we expect some
downgrades there. And in the world where
downgrades are coming through or will
come through, you look to the parts of
the market that are upgrading. And
that's the US, but again, the US is
upgrading through very different set of
sectors. And it's tech again. It's mega
cap tech. So, AI that was on the shaky
ground at the start of the year is back
because it's diluted and earnings are
are getting upgraded. That's why. I give
you credit where it's due because you
were quite early on the international
call at the time. So, credit to you and
the team for doing that. US leadership
appears to be reasserting itself because
of the tech story. But, we're seeing
that in other places, too. South Korea,
the Kospi is absolutely flying again. Do
you have less enthusiasm for the
international tech trade? How are you
thinking about that dimension?
So, you could argue that the
international tech trade is more
cyclical. I get that, but they are all
interconnected and Korean market is
something insane. I've never seen
anything like that.
Every single week, the upgrades to the
earnings for Korea are amounting to like
20% extra in the EPS. The earnings
expectations have tripled. They are up
300% over the past few months. So, for
me, again, coming back to this point, in
the in the market where
the the outlook is
uncertain for many parts now, you just
follow the earnings, right? What's
fascinating is people are saying it's
back to the US and the US seems to be
the winner. You're not seeing a
commensurate move in the dollar. And
actually, now a lot of strategists are
coming out and saying they expect a
reassertion of the weakening in the
dollar that we saw earlier this year.
How does that play into a US call when
catering to European investors? So, our
view is that in this current market
environment, you have to be very nimble.
So, what is winning right now in a few
months time could be reversing as well
because the the drivers for the
diversification trade are there
underneath, right? But, they are just
overshadowed by other worries right now.
And US dollar weakness, of course, that
would be very helpful.
US usually doesn't
outperform in the dollar weakness
environment. So, that's something to
watch out for, but that's really every
dependent on the
uh on the resolution of the war and the
speed of that resolution. I've heard a
lot of people say this, stay nimble.
What does that mean in terms of the
liquidity profile of your portfolio? How
much you have to stay in the names that
are easiest to trade, the assets that
are easiest to trade, given the fact
that everyone is expecting potential
shifts that could potentially require
some pretty significant trade trade
activity. That's a very important
question. And of course at the start of
the year or late last year everybody was
getting excited about mid-caps
outperforming, growth prospects getting
better. But for us right now, this type
of environment, you just stay in large
caps, you stay in liquidity. You say
follow the earnings. Commodity
strategists I talk to will say follow
the barrels, the physical barrels.
What is the tension like right now
between say your team versus the
commodities team? So, our views are
pretty pretty much aligned, I have to
say. So, at the very start of the of the
conflict, what we've done, we've
upgraded one of the biggest geopolitical
hedges, the UK, to overweight. We've
downgraded one region that was very
bullish and we've had it as an
overweight to underweight, Japan.
So, the difference this time round
versus 2022 is back then it was only
about Europe, the energy crisis. Right
now, it is much broader and
Europe, what I could be, physical
shortages, but Asia is much more exposed
to that. Do you think the president has
also basically primed the market for
this because of all the jawboning he's
done in in past episodes like Liberation
Day?
Well, it's it's it's hard to say, right?
What I can say is what I see what I see
in the data and the fact that the
situation is still very uncertain and we
we do not have the edge on the outcome
or the the speed of the of the
resolution to the conflict. So,
>> are the conversations with clients that
you're having in Europe compared to the
conversations you've had so far in New
York.
So, we get no pushback on the overweight
of the US.
>> I'm not surprised.
>> Everybody is still quite bullish the
emerging markets tech-related
part. And of course, about Europe,
investors are worried about longer-term
effects of this energy crisis. They
should be more limited than last time
round in 2022, but there will be some,
right?
And of course, right now, investors are
more upbeat, but our view is that lots
of the the majority of the market moves
over the last week, the squeeze higher,
has been because of the short covering.
So, the market was very, very well
hedged, but underneath the surface,
most investors
outside the hedging have been keeping
the same winners as they've had selected
for the start of the year. And that
could be a problem once the positioning
washes washes itself out.
>> Beata Matray, good to see you. Thanks
for the update. Thanks for being here.
We should do it again soon. Thank you.
Beata Matray there. As soon as you say
you're trying to start fights with the
commodity team over at Citi. Max is
joining us later. Well, I'm just curious
because the note leads in with well, the
commodity team says this. So, you know.
Max Layton of Citi joining us from the
commodity team in about an hour from
now. Yeah. What I thought Beata said
that was actually really interesting is
that there is no disagreement. That you
can have two things at once. You can
walk and chew gum at the same time. I
got that expression right. But this idea
that going forward Tooth for tooth. You
get this I'm just absolutely crushing.
I'm not going to say any more
expressions. But going forward, there is
a sense that even if oil prices remain
elevated, you could still see strength
coming from tech, coming from the
consumer. Let's give you an update on
news elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Yuhara joins us with more. Hey,
Yuhara. Hi, John.
Mediators between the US and Iran are
moving closer to extending the ongoing
ceasefire before it expires next week.
The AP reporting Washington and Tehran
have given a quote in principle
agreement to extend the truce, allowing
for more diplomacy.
We are seeing shares of Bank of America
rising more than 1% in the pre-market
after exceeding estimates for the first
quarter. The bank reporting record
equity sales [music] and trading
revenue. CEO Brian Moynihan remains
watchful of evolving risks, but saying
the results are quotes indicating
>> [music]
>> a resilient American economy.
And US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
warning that China's trade surplus
threatens global economic stability.
[music]
At an Institute of International Finance
event in Washington, he said the world
cannot take a China with a $1 trillion
surplus. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Hey Yohai, thank you for the update. Up
next on the program, pushing [music] for
a grand bargain.
What the president wants to make, he
doesn't want to make like a small deal.
He wants to make the grand bargain. He
said, "If you guys commit to not having
a nuclear weapon, we are going to make
Iran thrive." Up next, Ed Mills of
Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Equity futures right now just turning
positive on the S&P 500 following a
close to record-breaking run. Very
close, within 1% on [music] the S&P 500
and getting even closer with the gains
of yesterday. A 10-day run on the
Nasdaq, just unreal. A 10% rally on the
S&P [music] 500. The Nasdaq 100 this
morning just about unchanged. More bank
earnings just around the corner. We'll
hear from Morgan Stanley in the next 15
[music]
minutes. Crude looks like this, WTI and
Brent shaping up as follows. Brent crude
at 96, WTI at 92. Slightly elevated
[music] this morning, up by a little
more than 1%, but some encouraging
headlines coming from AP suggesting
we're getting closer to extending
[music] a truce between the US and Iran.
>> And that's enough. At least it's less
bad news and it's not necessarily some
sort of escalation. I love this idea of
the idea that less bad news is good news
for this market and everyone would like
to move [music] on.
>> So, we go back to old stories. Please.
The old stories that we love to go back
to.
>> [laughter]
>> The future of the Federal Reserve. I
almost don't want to do this [music]
because we've done this so many times,
but this from the president just moments
ago. That Chair Powell will be fired if
he doesn't leave on time. So, let's set
the stage. What does on time actually
mean? Then we need to talk about that.
His term as chair expires in the next
month or so. But, if Kevin Warsh is not
appointed and confirmed in [music] time,
there is reason to believe the chairman
will hang around. Is that on time?
If the DOJ investigation wraps up, the
Federal Reserve Chair Jay Powell has
talked about maybe walking away, but
hasn't totally ruled out staying on the
board as governor. So, does that mean
he's staying beyond [music] his time?
I'd like a slightly firmer definition of
what the president is talking about here
and just exactly [music] what he's
looking to pursue. And maybe at a later
date he'll give us that time frame. He
also said that President Trump said that
he was not planning to drop the probe on
Fed Chair Jay Powell and going on to say
that he'll be fired if he doesn't leave
on time. This goes as the [music]
hearing is set for next week. Really key
question though about whether it will
actually go through given the fact that
Tom Tillis very much is digging in his
heels and saying until this probe is
completed, he's not going to allow this
vote to go through. I'm with Jonathan.
I'm struggling with the timing of this
and you. [music] Okay, his chairmanship
ends basically in a month, May 15th,
2026. [music]
But, his governorship ends January 31st,
2028. So, the president says he needs to
leave on time. Is he talking about his
chair or his governorship? [music]
Because that's a big difference.
>> That's very odd, isn't it? Look, you've
got Kevin Warsh ultimately lined up to
have a hearing in the next [music] week,
I believe, on Tuesday, on April 21. He's
got pretty broad-based support
in the Senate to get confirmed. He's got
[music] support from establishment
figures like Jamie Dimon of JP Morgan.
We talked about the support for Kevin
Warsh elsewhere. So, you've got your
man.
And he's ready to be confirmed, yet you
want to go forward with something that
could prevent his confirmation.
I just find the whole thing a bit
strange right now. The off-ramp was
there for you, and it hasn't been taken.
And not only that, but we hear about
investigators trying to raid the new Fed
building to get more information and
getting turned away by security. I mean,
it is increasingly becoming an
unnecessary drama, and I am
editorializing, but a lot of people in
markets have already looked on from this
too because they want to look on from
everything that is dramatic in any
capacity and could potentially derail
things. But right now, people are
looking to a new [music] Fed that we
still don't understand the contours of,
and we don't know when Kevin Warsh will
actually get through because both sides
seem to be digging in their [music]
heels.
>> Natasha Ecanow is down in Washington,
DC. Natasha, we were going to come to
you on the war, of course, but this
takes center stage now. Your thoughts on
what the president is getting at here
and what it means to Kevin Warsh's
ultimate confirmation hearing we've been
waiting for over the last several weeks.
Well, John, it's clear that President
Trump is trying to ramp up the pressure,
but we have to keep in mind there's sort
of two parallel things happening here.
President Trump, of course, no secret
that he's
unhappy with Chair Powell, but it comes
on the heels of yesterday. Chair Tim
Scott saying that there is going to be
this hearing in the Senate Banking
Committee next week, but he also said
that he is expecting that legal matter
against Jerome Powell to be wrapped up
quickly, and that's really what this all
comes down to because as you're
discussing, at this point, Senator Tom
Tillis has been digging in his heels to
block this nomination. Despite saying a
few weeks ago that he met with Warsh, he
likes him, he wants to vote for him, but
he does hold that pivotal key swing vote
on the Senate Banking Committee.
Republicans only have that 13-11
majority, which means that at this
point, he really can block it. And
importantly, it had appeared that the
administration was given a potential
off-ramp after a few weeks ago we saw
this judge strike down the subpoenas
that were issued against the Federal
Reserve saying that there weren't the
correct grounds to actually issue them.
However, at this point at the Department
of Justice has been digging in its heels
saying that it's going to appeal that
decision, and that is really what we
have to look out for as Tim Scott says
at least he thinks that this could be
wrapped up quickly. Well, this could get
very messy. Santana, thank you. The
latest from the president then speaking
to Fox News. These headlines just been
released. The chairman Powell will be
fired if he doesn't leave on time. Ed
Mills of Raymond James, over to you,
sir. Good morning.
>> Morning. Good to see you. Your reaction
to that headline. Where is this going
with this Federal Reserve?
>> So, there's a couple things that we have
to watch. One, the Supreme Court's
probably going to tell him pretty
quickly that he does not have the
authority to fire a Fed governor because
he's already tried to fire someone, Dr.
Lisa Cook. And I think if you take a
step back, what he has done is
ultimately going to make the Fed more
independent. If he didn't do anything,
these threats actually could have meant
something. And now he can threaten, and
it's probably going to make Powell stay
longer. If he is going to be threatened
to going to get fired for leaving on
time. And then we go to Tom Tillis. He's
really important. It's 13-11 on the
Banking Committee. It would be 12-12.
But, we also have to remember you don't
actually have to have an affirmative
vote in committee to be considered on
the floor of the Senate. All that's
required is the Senate majority leader
has to file a discharge petition. If you
have 51 votes, or 50 plus the vice
president, you can confirm someone. So,
yes, he'll dig in his heels, this could
add to the drama, but it doesn't stop
Kevin Warsh from being confirmed if the
Senate majority leader and 51 members of
the Senate want him confirmed. So,
that's why the base case remains Kevin
Warsh will be in the job sooner rather
than later. May 16th? Um
around then. I mean, it's we still have
a month here.
We got all of the financial forms, all
of the forms are now filed yesterday.
Kind of the paperwork is done. Now it's
time for a confirmation hearing. That
goes well, you just bring it to the
floor, prioritize this, he's confirmed.
>> Okay, so then what happens when the
president says the Fed chair doesn't
leave on time, he's going to be fired.
Does Do you think the president means
his chairmanship or his governorship
which ends in 2028? Yeah, it's a good
question because if you look at the
Federal Reserve Act, there isn't
anything related to firing the chair.
There is about firing governors for
cause, and so you could make the case
that the chair could be fired
and that role, but the individual
governor is going to be decided by the
Supreme Court. Ultimately, the other
thing we'd look at, and this is what
we've seen in the past, is that the FOMC
actually chooses its own chair. So the
federal the the president could fire him
as chair of the Fed, but the FOMC would
then pretty quickly reaffirm him as
chair of the, you know, policy making
decisions related to monetary policy,
which is what the, you know, market
actually really cares about, Amory. Is
this an ego issue or is this an issue of
trying to get interest rates lower? I
think it's a combination. I think this
is just a pattern. You ask her like, why
do we do this? He had an off-ramp, he
didn't take it. How many times have we
said it was right there, and then he did
something that made it harder to
actually happen. So this here is I think
a pattern. I know that he wants this to
be confirmed. I think that they could
have confirmed him earlier than kind of
the May 15th and and maybe pushed him
on.
We've had the DOJ show up at the Fed as
we saw. The Fed didn't let them in. And
so anytime that there is a conflict
between like, you don't let my guys do
what I want them to do, you don't get to
dictate that, I get to dictate that. I
think this is behind that. I think he's
seeing some of these stories that the
Federal Reserve Police Force didn't let
his folks in and he's going to kind of
establish this as I'm the one in charge.
From a market's perspective, it's
popcorn, watch this in your free time,
but it has no relevance to anything
unless it starts to increase some of the
pressure on Kevin Warsh should he get
confirmed to lower rates in the face of
inflation that is somewhat higher and a
really resistant
Fed board that has pushed back
significantly. So, at what point does it
enter the market's frame in some sort of
relevant point other than just popcorn?
Yeah, so two things I'd say the the you
know, market always tests the new Fed
chair and we're going to see kind of
that in rates more than you know, kind
of the equity markets, but obviously
that spills over to the equity markets.
The conversation's going to be about the
Fed balance sheet. Is he going to force
that to be, you know, shrunk? Number
two, uh I think that Scott Bessent
provided uh Warsh with a huge amount of
political cover this week saying maybe
it's not the time to cut rates. So, next
week in his confirmation hearing, you
know, as kind of Democratic senators are
going to say, "Are you going to do the
president's bidding and are you going to
cut rates even if inflation is higher,
even in the face of this war?" It's
like, "Look, I'm going to look what the
data is. There is a debate about this.
Even the Treasury Secretary said maybe
it's not the time just yet." So, we will
see. I think the market has taken out
the price, you know, kind of the the
the cuts for this year, pushed it into
next year. I think that is now the base
case.
Thankfully, he'll have that political
cover as he's debating this in the
Senate Banking Committee next week.
>> You mentioned the fact that US
prosecutors made this surprise visit to
the Fed. The market doesn't seem to care
about that at all. If that happened in a
country like Turkey, it would be a
massive deal. Why is it not a big deal
here? Um because it's a continuation of
a story that most have decided is not a
story.
Right.
Does it matter? No. I mean, it's it's
like it's the you know, we are talking
about a renovation of a building. Anyone
who walks by or drives by have seen a
construction project there that is
massive for years. We recognize that
there are constraints on the way in
which these are built. The actual
Federal Reserve Act kind of dictates the
number of buildings that the Fed is
allowed to have, which drives up these
construction costs. And so, to the
extent that this is, you know, about
monetary policy, that would be a bigger
deal. But, if it's over a construction
project
>> Yeah, it's like it's very expensive
marble.
>> it super super simple. The biggest
difference between Turkey and the United
States, when Erdogan says you're fired,
you're fired. In the United States, when
you say you're fired, you're not. We
have institutions. For all those no king
protests that take place in this
country, there aren't any. These
institutions stand up and protect the
laws that we have in this country, and
that's why when the president says
you're fired, they're not. It's
different here.
>> And if anything, the independence, as Ed
was just talking about, is only edified
given the fact that Lisa Cook is still
there even after the attempts to fire
her, and that is what people have been
watching. So, given all of that, is this
a non-story increasingly for Wall Street
given the fact that ultimately Kevin
Warsh will take over, and he is
completely acceptable, and this [music]
is all just popcorn.
>> Powell staying around is not a
non-story. I think that's a pretty
interesting one. All right. That's the
dimension of this that is intriguing. I
was going to say, thank you so Likewise.
Thank you. Ed Mills there of Raymond
James. Up next, Jared Cassidy of RBC.
Earnings from Morgan Stanley just around
the corner.
>> [music]
>> Stocks just about unchanged on the S&P
500 on the Nasdaq after a 10-day run of
gains, just stalling out just a touch.
We're going nowhere [music] this morning
so far on the Nasdaq 100, the longest
daily winning streak going back to 2021.
More bank earnings on deck, just heard
from Morgan Stanley moments ago. It's
fair to say they got it done. Morgan
Stanley [music] in the pre-market up by
1% with the result. Stephanie Berger has
more. Hey, Danny. John, it is another
monster quarter for another bank when it
comes to equity trading. This is a huge
number for Morgan Stanley. The estimate
was at $4.78 billion. It comes in at
$5.15 billion. Just to put it in
context, they are just inches away from
Goldman Sachs equity trading business,
which came in at $5.33 billion, which
set a new high watermark for the
entirety of Wall Street. So, Morgan
Stanley just behind them. When it comes
to their FIC trading, also a beat, which
again, Goldman Sachs was unable to do
this time around. $3.36 billion is where
they stand for FIC trading. The estimate
was for just under $3 billion. Net
interest income, that's a slight beat as
well. And their investment bank, that
also beating with the return of M&A in
the first quarter. And then there's the
crown jewel of Morgan Stanley, and that
is their wealth management business.
That net revenue also coming in at a
beat, $8.5 billion. The estimate was for
just over $8.4 billion. So, clearly
there's still lots of appetite among
high net worth individuals and wealth
clients to invest in these volatile
times. Just a few sore notes and and
maybe why you're not seeing shares up as
much as others. Their compensation
expenses were higher, $8.5 billion. That
was higher than expected. The bank just
noting that they had a lot of bonuses to
pay out and that led into those higher
compensation expenses. The provisions
for credit losses, this might get a few
eyeballs. That's higher than expected,
$98 million. The expectation was for $80
million. And again, their non-interest
expenses, that also comes in a little
bit higher. So, higher credit
provisions, higher expenses, but
everything else very strong beats, John.
Strong across the board. Beat, beat,
beat. Said this a few times already this
week across major banks. These
individual trading records we've seen at
Goldman, at Morgan Stanley, at Citi, JP
Morgan, Bank of America, they continue.
Bank of America, okay, earlier on this
morning, record revenue for them in some
cases over in the trading division.
Morgan Stanley this morning doing better
up by 0.5%
in the pre-market. Ted Pick coming up
later, look out for this 10:45 Eastern
time on Bloomberg TV, catching up with
Bramo on a solid set of results.
>> Yeah, I saw these results and I thought,
no wonder he wants to talk. This is a
pretty incredible quarter and it talks
to the strength that we've seen pretty
much across Wall Street. A key question
here is how much momentum is there
heading into the rest of the year. Danny
was talking about credit losses, the
provisions for credit losses. How much
is this tied to private credit? Have we
put that completely to bed? It seems
like everyone's just sort of casting
some cold water over that. But
otherwise, I mean, what Beata Manthey
was talking about, the idea that they're
all trying to stay in liquid assets to
keep trading and keep trading. Well,
that is music to the ears of Wall Street
because that trading, ongoing volumes,
have really supported a lot of these
bank books across the board.
>> Stock is up by 1.2% to extend the
conversation. Joe Cassidy of RBC joins
now for more. Joe, welcome back to the
program. This line from Ted Pick of
Morgan Stanley, "Strong execution
resulted in net revenue of $20.6
billion." That word, execution. Joe,
what's the difference between a great
environment that benefits everyone and
really fantastic execution? You see him
one or the other?
John, thank you for having me back and
you're right, execution is critical.
As you know, all of these players are
major players in trading. There's
Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, JP Morgan and
of course Morgan Stanley and Bank of
America.
However, you need to be able to execute
for your clients and Morgan Stanley,
particularly in equities, has over the
years done a very good job and under the
leadership of Ted Pick, they're
continuing with that. Now, the market
conditions were wonderful for all of
these players as you pointed out and
volatility helped trading and we saw
that in spades with Morgan Stanley as
well as the others. Jared, based on your
calls, and I'm just basing this on your
calls, and I'm going through them bank
by bank, you've got outperform ratings
on JP Morgan, Bank of America, and City.
You've got sector perform on Goldman
Sachs and Morgan Stanley. The numbers
from Goldman and Morgan Stanley were
great this quarter, great last quarter.
Is there something about the backdrop
for those two names that you don't think
will be as supportive in the months to
come?
Not so much. Yeah, that's a good point.
I would say that there's the volatility
and the impact on the investment banking
results that we're trying to assess. We
also know that those names have are
trading at valuations that are far
superior to a Bank of America or a
Citigroup, of course. And there's maybe
better upside, we think, in owning those
names rather than the pure plays on
investment banking. But if one believes
that the volatility will continue,
that's a positive, of course, for
trading. So, every investor has their,
you know, their best pick in this
capital markets business, and I can
understand why some people may want to
own Morgan Stanley and Goldman. We just
prefer to go with the universal banks as
the play. It seems like Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs are frequently lumped
together. That's been how it has been
classically. They are rivals. Who do you
think's winning between them?
That's a good question because both of
them are really good in their, um,
different areas. Uh, obviously, Goldman
stands out in the advisory business.
They're number one. Um, they also are
very strong in ECM. Morgan Stanley
stands out in their wealth management
business. One of the hallmarks of James
Gorman,
the former CEO of Morgan Stanley, was to
move the revenues from the wealth
management business from I if I recall
correctly during the financial crisis,
less than 10% of total revenues, to
today over 50%, and that's really what's
differentiated Morgan Stanley from
Goldman Sachs, as well as their
execution in equity trading, as well.
Just curious, Gerard. We're hearing a
lot from banks about potential risks
going forward as they report these
record hauls for the first quarter. I'm
just wondering what you want to hear,
what you have heard about the road
ahead, and the questions that remain to
really assess whether this backdrop can
really continue to persist.
It is is a really good question because
the uncertainty created by the
hostilities in the Middle East is really
the number one question. You know, when
will they end? When will the price of
oil come down to more reasonable levels?
And when we can get our arms around that
with some confidence, I think that's
going to really propel the banks as a
group to higher levels because of the
health of the US economy, and also would
potentially help the wealth management
business, as well as investment banking.
That's one thing we've heard is that,
you know, the IPO calendar is still very
strong, but due to this volatility, it's
not it hasn't really taken off yet, and
people are very anxious to start to see
that happen.
One big cloud that's hung over the
banking sector has been private credit.
Have we put those fears to rest given
some of the commentary and the loan loss
provisions from the big banks?
Um I don't know if we'll ever put them
to rest, but have they certainly been
kind of tamped down? The answer is yes.
You know, the banks were very good at
disclosing how they structured these
loans into the private credit sector. We
are
We are with what Jamie Dimon has said
from JP Morgan, that during a credit
cycle, you will see losses in private
credit. It's not going to be systemic,
in our opinion, which we agree with his
view on that, as well.
But there will be losses, and there may
be some spillover into the banks, but it
will be manageable. The way they've
structured their lending into the
private credit sector gives them
protection that enables them maybe not
to have the losses that some people
expect.
>> Jared, before you go, and I know we've
touched on this a few times already this
year, but I think it's worth reflecting
on once again. This year we could see
some of the biggest IPOs ever that we've
ever seen in the history of capital
markets, financial markets in the US or
anywhere for that matter. We just put
out a story earlier on this morning
about Anthropic being valued potentially
at close to 800 billion, and maybe who
knows where we end the year, maybe north
of that. Jared, that's just the IPOs.
Then the M&A. We had a story out
yesterday, the team here at Bloomberg,
that American Airlines and United
Airlines were exploring a get-together
driven by Scott Kirby. Now, Jared, I
don't expect you to comment on that
directly, but I just wonder what on
earth we're opening the door to in the
back half of '26 for all this activity
these banks might benefit from.
John, you said it very well, and I would
say that if we could again have the
Middle East situation in a rearview
mirror, and maybe that will never happen
completely, but certainly die down from
what we're seeing, with this
administration, they are very supportive
of consolidation, deregulation, not just
in the banking industry, but in many
industries, and people know that this
administration effectively ends at the
end of '28. So, we have a two to two and
a half year window to get stuff done,
and to your point, I think these markets
are going to be very robust to have a
lot of that activity take place in the
second half of the year, which will
benefit, of course, investors and
shareholders of these companies. How
well priced do you think that story is
already?
I boy, that's a tough one. It's a fair
question, and I would say that it's
definitely not fully priced in, but
there is certainly some of it being
priced in, and it's because of the
uncertainty. I keep on coming back to
this with the Middle East, but that is
certainly what's weighing on it. Once
that is removed or or reduced
dramatically, boy, oh boy, you could see
stocks even move further to the upside.
Jared, I was going to say it. Thank you,
sir. Chuck Cassidy there of RBC wrapping
up the bank earnings on Wall Street. I
remember a conversation that we had with
Brian Moynihan under the Biden
administration, where some clients were
even having a deal conversation about
putting a deal together because they
didn't know what would get approved
under that administration. We've been
talking about hand backs. You mentioned
that. Coach couldn't even get that deal
done. It was ridiculous.
>> Little luxury. Crazy stuff. Now we're
talking about the opposite end of crazy.
The potential of United American
Airlines [laughter] getting together.
That is unbelievable. And as Jared's
talking about a two-year window here,
and companies that are going to rush to
get things done that might not be able
to get things done in a few years time.
>> Which is why pipelines have not really
shrunk considerably at a lot of these
banks. That's the commentary that we've
heard from a lot of the executives at
the big banks. And why people are still
expecting a banner year. And just as
long as we can get this Iran thing
resolved, then people can all get going
again. And that's kind of been the story
from the C-suite.
>> little thing.
>> This little thing.
>> This tiny little thing. Danny's still
with us. Danny, I wanted to give you the
final word. Great work, by the way, over
the past few days breaking down these
results. What have we learned looking at
the results from Wall Street over the
past three months? I think we've just
learned that when it's the right type of
volatility, this is the type of numbers
we get. Basically, every bank we heard
from on their equity trading front hit a
new record, setting new records for Wall
Street. That will raise questions about
where we go from here. This is something
that Jamie Dimon addressed yesterday on
both the investor and the media call
that you can't necessarily read forward
this quarter in trading specifically in
quarters to come. There's plenty of
still volatility out there with a war
ongoing, still questions over AI. So
they could repeat this. But just this
morning report came out from S&P saying
that increasingly banks trading exposure
is fragile given just how much they are
dependent on some of the high frequency
traders. What happens if that pillar
starts to collapse? So yes, the numbers
are good and it is worth celebrating and
you see Morgan Stanley stock up 2% but
again between that and M&A, the
questions will be asked. Can they repeat
such a banner quarter again this year?
Danny, thank you. Once again, looking
forward to coverage later on this
morning. Looking forward to this as
well, 10:45 Eastern time.
Lisa, catching up with Ted Pick, the
Morgan Stanley CEO a little bit later
this morning. What are the questions for
you now after you've seen these results
for this man right there? Well, the main
question as as we were just hearing,
really is the outlook for the pipeline
given what is going on with that little
thing over in Iran, right? This is idea
of how much is that really torpedoing
people's plans, how quickly people will
get back on board, what potentially
rates staying at this level does to all
of these deals considering the fact that
people had been expecting rates to
continue to go down. And then honestly,
one of the key questions has been
acquisitions, right? I mean Morgan
Stanley has been an acquirer and a
disruptor. How much are they considering
exploring the backdrop that seems to be
an open door?
>> Like Goldman Sachs, Exactly.
I'm not starting any mistake. [laughter]
Don't run with that. That would be that
would be similar though to the United
American Airlines, you know, that would
be a great flex. Crazy. Morgan Stanley,
no.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm not starting anything. You can.
Stock's up by 2%. Let's get you an
update on stories. Ask him on stories
elsewhere. Your Bloomberg brief with
Yohai Ra. Hi Yohai Ra. Hi John, taking
another look at those Morgan Stanley
earnings. Shares are rising 2%. [music]
The investment bank reporting equity
sales and trading revenue for the first
quarter well above estimates at $5.1
billion.
>> [music]
>> Fixed sales also topping estimates along
with a beat on net interest income. Lisa
will be sitting down with Morgan Stanley
CEO Ted Pick exclusively at 10:45 a.m.
[music] this morning.
The Pentagon reportedly sending
thousands of additional troops into the
Middle East over the coming days
according to the Washington [music]
Post. The reinforcements will include
about 6,000 troops by a aircraft carrier
and over 4,000 [music] Marines that are
expected to arrive towards the end of
the month. This coming as President
Trump [music] is suggesting the war is
quote close to over.
And President Trump warning Fed Chair
Jay Powell that he will be fired should
he not leave his position [music] by May
15th. The president's adding that he has
no plans on dropping the DOJ probe on
Powell and the renovations
>> [music]
>> on the Fed building. That should be a
Bloomberg Brief.
>> John, Yohai, thank you. Appreciate it.
And next on the program, credit
concerns.
We have this entire ecosystem of private
credit that has made it possible, you
know, has financed um companies that
probably would have struggled otherwise.
We see it through the rising defaults in
the private credit sector. The way this
plays out is the way it always plays
out. People want liquidity. In just a
moment, we'll catch up with the
Schroder's Capital CEO, Georg von der
Linde. He joins us next live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York City, welcome back to
the program. Your scores look like this.
Equity futures [music]
on the S&P 500 just about unchanged
following a really fantastic run on the
S&P up off the lows by close to 10% and
very, very close to all-time highs. Just
think about that. We've shut down the
Strait of Hormuz. Hardly any traffic
coming through and yet we're this far
away from record highs on the S&P 500.
[music]
>> everyone's just trying to get past this
so that they can look at earnings and
talk about all the underlying momentum.
My big takeaway, one you could say
complacency, etc. The second one is
[music] that the US economy in
particular was poised for an
outperformance in economic growth that
was so much greater than what people
expected that this takes that edge off,
so you're still seeing gains even though
they might not be as much as they
previously might have been thought to
And based on reports so far this
morning, it looks like the US and Iran
close to extending [music]
a truce. The ceasefire set to expire the
next week or so. The report from the AP
came about an hour ago. So it looks like
potentially we're going to have this
extend past April 22nd. Although if you
look at what one of the officials said
to the AP, they want three things hit by
April 22nd, Iran's nuclear program,
something [music] on reparations, and
the reopening of the Strait of Hormuz.
While that is signaling the top line
they want to extend the ceasefire,
there's other headlines coming out
[music] with Iran saying if one side
violates a deal, the other party can
too. And Tehran views the US blockade
>> [music]
>> as a violation of the ceasefire deal.
Things are still very very fragile.
They're not at the banks right now.
Let's put it that way. Morgan Stanley in
the premarket higher by 2.5% earnings a
little bit earlier on this morning. And
those earnings were better than good.
Beats across the board. Their equities
trading revenue 5.15 billion versus the
estimate of 4.78 billion dollars. The
opening line of Ted Pick's commentary
heading this particular earning season
is Morgan Stanley reported a record
quarter, mic drop. And that is what
you're seeing right now in markets.
>> commentary on private markets, private
credit from basically all of these
players over the last few days. The Bank
of America CFO believe on the call right
now talking about the firm not changing
their private credit strategy and
[music] haven't seen any losses in the
private credit portfolio. There's been
huge pushback from all of the executives
of big banks saying, "Look, there're
going to be some problem child children.
[music] We do see some
potential lending behavior that isn't
exactly wonderful. At the same time this
is not systemic and we plan to plow
ahead." And that has been a theme from
big banks. [music] And as Evanissky this
morning, credit concerns.
There are a number of operators out
there that probably should have gone
under even back in 2020 that are still
around. And today we have this entire
ecosystem of private credit that has
made [music] it possible, It financed
companies that probably would have
struggled otherwise. We see that through
the [music] bad pick activity. We see it
through the rising defaults in the
private credit sector.
>> The way this plays out is the way it
always plays out. People want liquidity.
So here's the latest this morning. Wall
Street banks reporting at least $100
billion of exposure to private credit
firms as investors question the
durability of the sector. Gaik
Vondeling, the CEO of Schroder's Capital
writing weaker players are being exposed
while stronger disciplined investors
stand out. Gaik joins us now for more.
Gaik, welcome to the program. And
welcome to New York. It's good to see
you, sir. Thank you. Thank you for
having me. Can you help us understand
the difference between a liquidity
driven repricing and a structural credit
event? Just explain to us one versus the
other and what you think this is.
>> Very happy to and it probably links
nicely to some of the comments made
earlier and and other executives in the
industry. Effectively, what the market
isn't really differentiating right now
is a liquidity stress in semi-liquid
vehicles. So linked to structures
ultimately in funds
versus impairments of underlying assets.
So what we have is liquidity distress in
essentially retail um oriented um
structures. So funds that have sold to
They've been sold to retail investors.
In some cases where probably these
investors haven't fully understood what
they're investing in. In some cases
maybe compounded by the fact that
there's software exposure and the market
is trying to price software and revalue
ultimately software in the light of
upcoming anticipated software
disruption.
Note, it hasn't happened yet. Um and
essentially the the the real distress on
payment of underlying assets which isn't
which isn't there which isn't which
isn't happening. And so that effectively
is the difference between the two. What
does it mean for you and the team and
the dislocations you've seen so far and
the money that you're looking to put to
work?
So I mean for us and just a first of all
to note, we're not a direct lender. Um
we are focusing on sectors which we
think is the um sort of the boring sexy
part of the new
>> [laughter]
>> the the um
the the the boring part of the market. I
use sort of lending against um
infrastructure assets, um lending
against um real estate assets, uh
lending against um on an asset-backed
basis, for example, against hard assets,
where we have better collateral, which
is less cyclically exposed. And I think
um to to us that is a key opportunity
also going forward to investors to build
more resilience in the into their
portfolios by embracing this next to the
exposures exposures they have in direct
lending. At a time of rapid change, a
dislocation, the idea of AI and what
that could potentially do in
transforming business,
is there an advantage to being illiquid
versus liquid with respect to your asset
allocation? I think it's, uh you know,
like broadly speaking, this gets to the
advantages of private markets generally
speaking. I I think you want to be both,
really. I I think there is no way an
investor can only be illiquid or only be
liquid. I mean, effectively, um private
markets uh roughly capture probably 80%
of the economy, depending on how you
count it. I mean, in terms of
um businesses in the United States, it's
probably 99% of businesses are not
listed. Um 80% of the workforce is
working for non-listed companies. I
mean, it's a bit hard to gauge, really,
but uh it it's such a big part of the
economy. Um a lot of the innovation
economy is actually happening in the
unlisted space. Um a lot of uh
effectively real assets, infrastructure,
real estate is is not really suitable
for listings. Um and then there's
obviously also bigger listed companies.
And and so, in any portfolio, there
there will have to be there will have to
be both. Do you think that illiquid
assets need to have a higher bar for
transparency, given that one of the big
concerns is that a number of lenders are
mismarking their books or marking
aggressively and optimistically just how
high some of the valuations could be? I
think the the issue is is much more the
how you deal with this in the context of
semi-liquid structures or liquid
structures where you can trade in in and
out of um illiquid assets rather than
effectively the time lag in valuations,
um and the approach to valuations in
illiquids in general. So, you don't have
a problem in illiquid funds ultimately
or in CLOs even in the private credit
space really where there is no trading
in and out in and out.
Um, so, you know, essentially the daily
volatility and themes which are played
through the stock market like, you know,
should valuations for software companies
be lower now because there will be
disruption in the future even though
earnings are still very much where, you
know, unchanged and and and very much in
a in in a good territory isn't something
that a private market fund would reflect
on a daily basis.
Um, however, if you have investors that
can trade in and out either daily or on
a quarterly basis, you all of a sudden
have that issue translating into these
types of structures. And I guess this is
where the
ultimately the the issue rises. And uh,
for me the question is ultimately when
the whether then investors fully
understand what they've bought into and
the fact that the underlying asset is
ultimately illiquid. Um, and there are
mechanisms that prevent um,
single investors for for for trading out
for for um, from trading out. Um, and
contagion to spread to a broader group
of investors just because of sentiment.
Clearly things haven't gone right for
the industry over the last few months.
With the minute we have left, what
should the lessons be of the last few
months for the industry?
So, I guess um,
you know, I mean to say it's maybe
slightly provocatively provocatively
growing too quickly
um, in certain areas um,
essentially and selling too much of one
thing maybe with slightly too much
divers too little diversification, too
much sector exposure in in certain
areas, maybe also a degree of lack of
discipline in terms of underwriting in
the 2021s 2020s pre
um, the change in the rate environment.
>> Yeah. Um, is something that has now has
to feed through the system. Per se,
that's not an issue and it's also not
leading to credit losses to just say
this again and it's also not leading
close to losses in private [music]
equity, but probably um, a series of
vintages that will have slightly lower
performance.
>> Gareth, thanks for making time for us
this morning and enjoy your time in
[music] New York. Gareth Van De Linde of
Schroder's Capital. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Phil
Camporeale of JP Morgan Asset
Management, Max Layton of Citi, Pooja
[music] Sriram of Barclays and Brent
Schutte of Northwestern Mutual. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
The earning story still looks very much
on track.
>> You have a situation where the
fundamentals actually got stronger.
>> There is still a lot of uncertainty out
there.
>> This uncertainty can pass, [music] but I
still think there's a very good uproad
ahead.
>> The bull market that started in October
of 2022 [music] has further to go. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz and Anne Marie
Hoardern.
Live from New York City this [music]
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. The third hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now. This far away from all-time highs
on the S&P 500 and into the rally just
about close to 1/10 of 1% higher on the
S&P and just [music] about unchanged on
the Nasdaq following a 10-day run of
gains. In the commodity market this
morning, Brent and WTI
fairly well-behaved. Brent crude at
about 95, WTI around 91. A fifth
straight consecutive close below $100 a
barrel at the front end of the futures
curve in [music] yesterday's session.
That's set to continue based on these
moves and based on the reports so far
that the US and Iran is close to
extending a truce.
>> Yeah, and this really has been what's
been the ballast behind [music] the
market performance so far is that you
haven't seen an escalation that talks
have been ongoing. Yes, Islamabad talks
did break down with no agreement, but
further talks are going to be held at
some point. That's the reporting.
[music] So, at this point is not worse
news good enough to keep this rally
going given the fact that we're getting
earnings that are incredibly strong from
US companies.
>> [music]
>> president is signaling that at least at
this moment Tehran has some distance
right now from Beijing. In a Truth
Social post he said China's very happy
that he's permanently opening the Strait
of Hormuz. There's actually a [music]
blockade right now in the Strait of
Hormuz, but maybe potentially down the
road the president is looking for a real
opening of the Strait of Hormuz, and
then this, they have not agreed to send
weapons to Iran. This is obviously
Iran's biggest backer because they buy
the lion's share of their oil. And what
he's saying is [music] Beijing is maybe
taking a You step back. We will see, and
the president will be obviously going to
Beijing in May.
>> It's funny just to track how people's
views on all of this has changed. At the
start of March if it goes on a few
weeks, it'll be okay just as long as it
doesn't go into April. And now we're
talking [music] about the prospect of
extending this truce without any real
clarity on what that means for the
Strait of Hormuz, and we could be
talking about the Strait still being
closed by the time we get to May. There
is not really a clear pathway to get the
Strait reopened. That's the problem
[music] right now. And what you hear on
the peripheries is that Iran rejected
the UN proposal to open the Strait to
all commercial traffic without [music] a
toll. Remember the toll booth that's
been set up? I mean again, people are
saying yeah, yeah, yeah, stop it with
the geopolitical noise. I just want to
get back to my earnings. And right now
markets seem to be focused on that. Even
though you could come up with a pretty
gloomy and doomy story about what's
going on in the [music] Middle East, and
it's really not that far of a stretch.
Talk to any commodity analyst, there
they are.
>> No glimmer of any bank earnings
whatsoever so far this morning from Bank
of America and Morgan Stanley. More
trading records. Morgan Stanley in the
pre-market up by close to 3%. Bank of
America up another one percentage point.
Latest from this morning, 10:45 Eastern
time. Bramo catching up with Ted Pick,
the Morgan Stanley CEO, following some
fantastic results earlier this morning.
>> The key issue is just how much is this
potentially threatened by what's going
on in the Middle East versus a big
pipeline of deals that are slated to get
done that a lot of banks have talked
about. We talked about how the
regulatory environment is more wide open
for some of these tie-ups, and how much
capital markets can continue to boom to
the extent that they did in the first
quarter even with some of the noise that
people keep talking about in the
background.
>> If United and American Airlines can get
a deal done, anyone can. I Okay, go
ahead. You're not ready for this rumor.
>> Imagine the pictures.
>> Okay, honestly, listen. Think of the
banks right now. All the pictures that
are coming up with.
>> is This is John this morning. Actually,
John
>> it, but what if Morgan Stanley were to
buy Goldman Sachs? If you know, United
and American [music]
>> United could buy American Airlines,
anyone can buy anyone.
>> I'll ask him. I'll ask Ted. I'll say
that John has a question for you.
>> Ask him about the United and American
Airlines deal [music] and the potential
of getting that done and what that could
mean for other sectors, other industries
>> [music]
>> and the kind of deals that have to
rethink the possibilities around.
>> Alphabet and Microsoft? I can't
>> Chevron and Exxon? [laughter]
They really goes.
You know
>> the limit.
>> Crazy talk. Think antitrust anyway.
>> Coach and Michael Kors, never mind.
>> No, no, that's not allowed.
>> [laughter]
>> Let's move on. Don't touch the handbags.
Don't upset Biden.
>> Hey, bad news, Ted.
>> Okay. Okay, sorry.
>> Antitrust handbags.
>> I'm sorry. Antitrust concerns. I won't
leave it. From one crazy to another.
It's crazy. All right. Coming up on the
program, Phil Camporeale of JPMorgan
[music]
with stocks trading near all-time highs.
Max Layton of Citi on reports the US and
Iran are close to extending their truce
and Peter Shri Ram of Barclays as
President Donald Trump ramps up the
pressure on Fed Chair Jay Powell. We
begin this hour with stocks hovering
around fresh record highs. Phil
Camporeale of JPMorgan Asset Management
writing the US in 2026 is the most
prepared to deal with a spike in oil
prices than at any point in recent
history. While we have reduced non-US
equity, we have not adjusted our
overweight to US equities. Phil joins us
now for more. Phil, good morning. Good
morning. Is this the return of US
leadership?
So, US exceptionalism is is not going
away, right? However, I think that the
US is a clear winner here when it comes
to the spike in oil prices as I wrote.
Um
so, let's kind of break this down a
little bit. Obviously, 5 years ago, we
went from an energy importer to an
energy exporter. So, lo and behold, we
had our equity person talk to us earlier
this week and they've upped their
earnings forecast from about 15% to 19%
this year. Why? Because these energy
companies are going to have a heck of a
lot of a lot of earnings uh this this
quarter. Secondly, the one big beautiful
bill act is coming at a one big
beautiful time. Okay? So, the the the
estimate here is that gas prices would
have to average $4.50
for the entire year
just to break even with the fiscal
policy that is being delivered in 2026
through the big beautiful bill act. As
we all know, tax refunds are hitting
today, April 15th. Happy tax day. Three
things that you can count on, death,
taxes, and the 60/40.
Shut the fire. Which I which I want
[laughter] to which I want to get to.
And then, like forward-looking, um I
know that inflation expectations in the
near term obviously are rising,
particularly headline inflation that
includes that includes uh energy prices.
But, if you look further into the
future, whether you look at the December
26 oil contract that's trading in the
'70s, or if you're looking at 5-year
5-year forward inflation expectations,
which is something that the Fed loves to
look at, uh those things really aren't
moving, John. So, you know, you add this
all up in the top 20% of earners that
basically determine success or failure
for this economy. They care about every
Thursday at 8:30 in the morning, which
is initial jobless claims. They don't
really care about gas, energy, and oil
prices. They only spend about 2 and 1/2%
of their income on those things. So, I
think they're a little bit more
insulated and they're and they're doing
fine. And claims have been super super
low. With regards to the war in Iran,
there was a report earlier on this
morning from AP that suggested the US
and Iran was close in principle to
agreeing an extension of the truce. This
came from Axios just moments ago that
the US has not agreed to an extension of
the ceasefire. That from Axios just
moments ago, the US and Iran will
continue to engage to reach a deal. So,
it sounds like from the United States
point, they want to keep talking, but
they have not agreed to extend that
April 22nd deadline. Maybe this will
change, but right now it seems that the
United States still wants to really
squeeze and put the pressure on Iran to
come to the table and almost capitulate
before April 22nd.
>> We'll have a round five around this
table now and talk about something
completely different. You want to take
it away, 60/40?
Well, it's related. I'll tie it together
and it's this idea of at a time when the
commodity shock is the significant
potential shock, does 60/40 work? You
are going to die on this hill. I just
wonder if you see the right now
an ongoing correlation, positive
correlation between stocks and bonds
because the potential risk factor is
inflation, how can you say this is still
going to work?
>> Yeah, so Lisa, I did think of you when
the 60/40 was hurting my feelings in
March.
As stocks were going down
and bonds were going down, but I I
thought it was something really
important. Once we priced out the
Federal Reserve from all of their easing
this year, the two-year note stopped
going up in rate, right? So, I think
there was a limit to that. Oil prices
went up, had to price out the I don't
think the Federal Reserve should be
easing policy over the next 6 months
anyway. Every single one of their
meetings is a cost-benefit analysis.
Does the benefit of a hike, a cut, or
staying on hold outweigh the cost of
potential policy or they shouldn't be
easing. But, the 10-year note is at four
and a quarter right now. We were at 4.1
in September of last year. Like the move
index is really our light because I
think that kind of controls everything.
The move index controls whether the 40
will protect the 60 and I think at this
point we we think it will because we
don't see tightening. Once you price out
the easing, now you can start to get the
benefit of diversification. But, you had
to go through those painful couple of
weeks to get there. And then what they,
you know, the move index, which is rate
volatility, also does is it allows you
to go buy equities. As I wrote, we never
reduced our US equity allocation. We
still have an above trend GDP forecast
this year, even if oil prices average
$88 for the whole year.
>> This is the contradiction and we've
talked about it a lot on this show that
if you expect growth to outperform and
you expect commodity prices to
inherently be higher going forward than
they would have otherwise been because
of blockages and questions about the
freedom of navigation on the seas, then
why wouldn't the stronger growth be
inflationary given the fact that we're
already at a higher than target
inflation for the past more than 5
years? Because it's it's it's not
showing up on I would say kind of the
supply side. So, if you look at wages,
if you look at shelter, right, the stuff
that really drove up inflation in years
like 2022, you're only seeing it on the
commodity side.
Um
and I think it's okay for service sector
to be sticky here, Lisa, because I think
what that's saying is that you have a
strong consumer, right? So, it's all
kind of circular into a positive
earnings growth story and an above trend
GDP growth story along with the fact
that you again have this one big
beautiful bill act that's providing.
Now, the Fed shouldn't be cutting rates,
that's not in our forecast and I think
it's not in our forecast because we do
have inflation probably closer to 3%
than 2% for the remainder of the year,
but to make these links back to 2022,
which gives asset allocators like me a
whole ton of PTSD, right? I don't I I
don't want that. Uh you have to then add
in the other parts of inflation, the
shelter, um
you know, the the owner's equivalent
rent was a huge driver there and that's
not we're not at that level right now.
The greatest counterpoint is just the
lack of labor wage growth right now.
This labor market is not as tight as it
was back in '22. I'm not saying it's
super super loose either, around 4 and
1/2% unemployment, 4 to 4 and 1/2 at the
moment, but you're not seeing the wage
growth that would make most people
worried about an inflationary spiral
from here. And I was March I think J
Powell's March of 2022, that wage price
spiral risk was so prevalent, which is
why the Federal Reserve eventually had
to hike by 75 bips a meeting four
meetings in a row. And then just the
other piece on equities, which I think
is is important.
Well, there's $22.7 trillion right now
sitting in checking accounts, savings
accounts, and money market funds. That
you know what that's yielding right now?
Even at Chase, but you didn't hear it
from me. It's yielding It's yielding 52
basis points. Like investors are stuck
in ZIRP, but these banks, right, can
then charge a 6 and 1/2% mortgage rate.
I mean, that's amazing.
>> I love it. I'm the embodiment of PTSD
from 2022. That's that's great. You
know, when they want to think of
something, they think of my face. All I
can say is, you know, it's a good pitch.
Yeah, you look like wrong way
correlation. That's right. Exactly.
>> [laughter]
>> She's depressed so Stocks down 10% and
people think of Bramo. So, that's how
this works, Lisa. I think that's great.
That's That'll be my Halloween costume.
>> [laughter]
>> 2022. Appreciate your time, as always.
Thanks for being here. Thank you. Phil
Camporeale there of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Let's give you an update on
news worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Let's cross over to Yohara for
more. Hey, Yohara. Hi, John. We're
seeing shares [music] of Bank of America
rising 8/10 of a percent after reporting
first quarter earnings that beat
estimates. The bank [music] reporting
record equity sales and trading revenue.
CEO Brian Moynihan saying the results
indicates indicates a resilient American
economy.
Morgan Stanley also moving higher up
2.7%. The investment [music] bank
reporting a record first quarter with
equity sales and trading revenue well
above estimates. Lisa will be sitting
down for an exclusive [music] interview
with Morgan Stanley CEO Ted Pick at
10:45 a.m. this morning.
And New Jersey Transit is considering
charging World Cup fans over $100
for round trip [music] train tickets
between New York's Penn Station and
MetLife Stadium. It's a pretty short
ride. New York Governor Kathy Hochul
called the fare awfully high. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Yohara,
thank you. Trying to work out if I
should save you from this or not, but
>> Ridiculous. I think the answer is no.
We've We've had enough months of this
conversation. I'm so disappointed with
how this has been handled in this
country over the last year or so. I'm so
bullish this game in this country and
you see youth teams all around the
northeast [music]
taking up football soccer and I think
that's absolutely fantastic. When we had
the World Cup in the US in '94 it wasn't
the right time. This was the right time.
It was a massive opportunity [music] for
this sport. All the kids should have
fantastic access to get into the
stadiums to watch these games for next
to nothing. And the idea that we're
talking about a hundred dollars just to
get a rail ticket
that is so so sad. I think it's really
sad the way this has been handled.
>> And then you add on top of that the cost
of the actual tickets. I mean this is
the reason why, you know, [music] on one
hand this is what America does best,
right? Everyone has their hand out to
make a profit if the demand is greater
than the supply. At the same time, it's
not really going to get my kids the game
cuz I am paying that. Right? And Italy
didn't even make it, John.
>> Oh, Phil, what you doing? Oh, no. Now
you're What you doing? Now John
I'll tell you with that last name as
well. I'm half Irish.
>> [laughter]
>> Up next
we're not doing that. The Morning Call
plus Max Layton of City with oil rising
on mixed messaging out of the Middle
East. That conversation and not
football. From New York City this
morning. Good morning.
So in terms of the stocks, there was a
window to buy a couple of these maybe at
the beginning of the war and we upgraded
a handful of the regional banks
during that period of time but we still
think that the risk reward trade off is
better in some of these regional banks.
>> JPM and BofA probably had the best
quarters. The stocks came in relatively
hot. We have erased all of the the war
fear and and losses going into earnings.
That was David George of bank wagon on
the bank earnings this morning. We heard
from Morgan Stanley and from Bank of
America. Those numbers better than good.
Equity futures just about unchanged
[music] on the S&P 500 following a
stellar rally in this equity market.
We've heard repeatedly [music] from the
banks on Wall Street. This consumer and
this economy, it's resilient. We heard
that from Brian Moynihan at Bank of
America. From Jamie Dimon, consumers are
still earning and they're still
spending. [music] From Wells Fargo,
spending has been very resilient through
the last month. We've heard it
repeatedly over the last week.
>> And they go on to say that just because
oil prices are high doesn't mean that
they're going to stop spending because
ultimately, as Jamie Dimon came out and
said, it really depends on the labor
market. And the labor market is strong.
Until you see unemployment really creep
higher, you're going to see this ongoing
resilience [music] that can continue to
power the US economy.
>> Futures just about unchanged on the S&P.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Piper
Sandler lowering [music] his price
target on Wells Fargo. The firm cutting
its EPS estimate for this year and for
[music] next. The second call from
Barclays raising its price target on
Citi. Sank earnings are proof of a
strong start to the year. And finally,
Goldman lowering its price target on JP
Morgan noting increased competition and
market volatility. The name is up in the
pre-market [music] by 0.4%.
That's the bank earnings. Let's turn to
energy. Crude rising as Iran pushes back
on the US [music] blockade of Hormuz
warning if it continues it will violate
the terms of the ceasefire. Max Layton
of Citi writing in a scenario of lasting
disruption of the strain [music] without
major escalation, we could see oil
prices relatively stable at higher
levels with lower realized volatility.
Max Layton joins [music] us now for the
ball. Max, welcome back to the show,
sir, and thanks for making time for us.
I know you're looking at a range of
scenarios. I believe there's three. So,
could you detail the three and just tell
me which one you think is most likely
and why?
Sure. Yeah, so I think because this
problem is so big that you know, the
baseline view that that we've taken that
I think the equity markets certainly
seems to be taken
is is that this is so big it has to be
solved either militarily or
diplomatically
and we had kind of penciled in around
now and over the next couple of weeks so
second half of April as a time where
that was our baseline view that that
that's when it's going to happen and
look it's still possible still possible.
We put a 50% indicative probability on
that on that scenario.
Um
the
in that scenario we still think it you
know, the baseline view that we still
think it gets worse before it gets
better. You know, the two sides even or
at least on nuclear a pretty far apart
and you know, there's also talk about
Iran saying how much you know, I've seen
numbers out there of up to 270 billion
dollars of damages that they want and
look
they want to kind of reparations for so
I would say that things look pretty far
apart. A lot can happen within a couple
of weeks. I mean couple weeks is very
long time but in any case we see the
price kind of grinding up over the next
couple of weeks to $120 is our 0 to 3
month point price target. That's the
central scenario and then it getting
resolved
diplomatically most likely. Um but you
know, we put also put a 30% you know,
we're certainly not out of the woods. I
think I would say we put a 30%
probability on the bull case scenario
for oil which is this
drags on for quite a bit longer or that
it involves mutual energy infrastructure
destruction and
I actually think that mutual energy
infrastructure destruction is much less
likely now. I think the bull case is
really about the Strait of Hormuz flows
being disrupted for let's say for
example if they were disrupted to the
similar magnitude to what we're seeing
today for the next 10 weeks
then oil inventories oil and product
inventories would fall to their lowest
levels in over 25 years of data that we
have,
and most likely to the lowest levels in
terms of days of consumption since the
'70s.
So,
you know, with that you would see in
this bull scenario Brent up at 150,
product premiums at 50, and all-in
prices at $200 plus.
So, we're you know, we're 10 weeks away
from that, and it's entirely plausible
that happens. And then the bear case
scenario Yeah, the bear case is just
really quick. It's just super super
quick resolution. You know, that the
that you get a, you know,
you get a reopening of the strait almost
immediately. Isn't the market kind of
pricing that in right now? Even though
Iran is talking at retaliation, the
market is weighing more heavily on the
fact that it looks like they want an
off-ramp between these two sides.
Yeah, I think in many ways, I mean,
look, even the back end of oil at $80,
12 months forward is I mean, it's
telling you that well, it's telling you
A, that the market's super tight right
now with spot trading at 130 to 150
depending on the the oil the crude
barrel you're looking at,
but it but it also does tell you that
the market, at least in oil and probably
also in equities that
it it is assuming that this is solved
pretty quickly.
What does solved mean, Max, given the
fact that we're hearing a ceasefire, but
it's unlikely, as pretty much every
analyst says, that the Strait of Hormuz
will actually reopen to the degree that
it was before the conflict?
Yeah, I I mean, I think solved is um
it is return, you know, a path to
returning those flows.
Um
probably it was it will be some kind of
phased trust-building
um return of flows in that baseline
view, but you know, look, there there is
that
entirely plausible other scenario that
that I think, you know, arguably the
market is complacent about, is is that
this drags on for a lot longer and all
that the conflict restarts in a couple
of weeks' time.
Are you sick of thinking about this? And
I ask this because I think that the rest
of the market is. I mean, I think that
really that's part of the issue is that
people are exhausted by the headline
roulette and so they're just discounting
it all together and moving on. I mean,
is that sort of your sentiment, too?
Yeah, I mean, look, it has been um
exhausting. You know, I'm spending half
a day uh on X and on Bloomberg trying to
figure out what's going on, but um
Yeah, I think people
in general are kind of hoping for the
best and uh getting on with their daily
lives and um
you know, I I have been and I think
that's reflected in our base case
scenario, but
well, it's
you know, I just um I think when I look
at the risk skew,
I think it's entirely plausible that
this regime um
it
that that the ceasefire works for them
uh in the sense that if they can just
hold out for let's say 10 weeks in that
scenario, you're going to drive all in
oil inventories down to lowest level in
decades and you're going to drive up the
oil price
uh and and you're going to be able to
probably maximize your
your um ability to extract something
from the negotiations. Um
Matt, I just like finish on this
question and it's an important one, I
think, in the 45 seconds we have left
with you.
There's a lot of people in other asset
classes taking comfort from how the
futures curve is positioned, how it
looks, the deep backwardation that
prices looking out further in the future
are a lot lower. They look at that
almost as an implied market forecast. Do
you see it the same way as a commodity
expert? Do you look at the curve and see
that as a market bear, or does it
reflect something else?
Oh, well, I mean, this is a big debate
and in my career in commodities, I've
worked with
different PhDs who have different views
on it. I I think your traditional
commodity expert would say
the forward price, 12 months forward, 6
12 months forward is not a forecast.
It's
It's reflects the convenience yield and
the tightness today. So, that that the
price the fact we're trading at 150
reflects the tightness today and the
backwardation is not a forecast, but you
know, everybody also knows that
you know, the just logic tells you that
the market is trading at that price and
if it was so far from people's
expectations, then it wouldn't be
trading there.
6 12 months forward. So, I I think the
further out on the curve you go,
the more it becomes
um
it the less tied to the front
and and to the tightness it is and the
more it is an expected value. Um
there's a big debate in the literature
about whether that's 12 months out of 5
years out, depending on who you work
with, yeah. We'll get into the books
another time. Max, it's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Appreciate your time.
Max Layton there of [music] City. Up
next, Peter Oppenheimer of Barclays as
President Donald Trump is ramping up the
pressure once again on Fed chair, Jay
Powell. Live from New [music] York City
this morning. Good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Only one down day so far this month on
the S&P 500 and it was tiny. It's like
this small. Equity futures just about
unchanged on the S&P following a
fantastic run on the S&P 500. Energy
stocks on the S&P so far this month down
9%. [music]
The Nasdaq so far this month up 9%. The
Nasdaq 100 on a 10-day winning run, the
longest since November 2021. All you can
really count on in this moment where
even Max Layton is saying, "I don't know
what's going to happen." We're all sick
of talking about what's going on in Iran
and yet we're just sort of headline
chasing, is that people keep investing
in tech. And tech keeps outperforming
and ASML actually upgraded their
forecast. So, for all of the noise
elsewhere, that is one constant and as
you put it is existential threat, which
is the reason why people are piling in.
This is the new haven.
>> Semis up by more than 20% I think
bonkers this month. The cost fee is
[music] up by something like 20% I think
this month. When you take a look at the
10-day gain going back for the socks for
the semiconductor index, it is the
biggest 10-day gain going back to 2002.
That gives you a [music] sense of just
how much of a rip it has been.
>> Absolute rip, super impressive rally.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Yih-Harng Hasslinger. Hi
Yih-Harng. Hi John, we're wrapping up
bank earnings with more of the same, a
trading bonanza on Wall [music] Street.
We start with Bank of America, shares up
1%. Traders there pulled in [music]
the unit's highest revenue in more than
a decade and Morgan Stanley right there
with it, shares are [music] up 2.6%.
Equity trading jumping 25% to a record
of more than $5
billion.
So, to sum it up, volatility-fueled
[music]
a windfall for these banks. Uh turning
to another name in the green and that is
Snap, shares [music] are up 6.4% in the
pre-market. The social media company
announcing it's cutting 16% of its
workforce as it tries [music] to achieve
profitability and notably CEO Evan
Spiegel pointing to AI as one of the
reasons the company is able to do more
with less people. [music] So, that's
what investors are reacting to, the idea
that AI uh can drive efficiency.
>> [music]
>> And we are also seeing shares of
Broadcom rising nearly 2% in the
pre-market after expanding its
partnership with Meta
>> [music]
>> to build custom AI chips. This is part
of a multi-billion
dollar uh push to build out more [music]
than a gigawatt of computing power.
John. Yohana, thank you. Thank you for
that. Broadcom with a fantastic run as
well. Let's send back to the Federal
Reserve. President Donald Trump saying
[music] he'll fire a chair Jay Powell if
he doesn't leave his position on time.
Mike McKee has more on that. Good
morning, Mike.
Good morning, John. Yeah, another threat
from the president. But before we get to
the Fed, I just want to mention that we
did get some economic data that will
make the markets happy again today.
Import prices rose 8/10% in March. The
forecast was for a 2.3% rise. So, like
PPI yesterday, better news and almost
all of that was oil prices. Ex-petroleum
import prices were up just a 10th of a
percent. Empire manufacturing also big
jump up to 11 from minus 0.2. So, some
good news on the economy this morning
and it might keep the Fed sidelined
whether the president can sideline Jay
Powell or not is another question. He,
once again, speaking with Maria
Bartiromo said that if Powell doesn't
leave on time, he would have to fire
him. But that's not up to him. That's up
to the Supreme Court. The Leisa Cook
case still
hanging out there. We hope to get a
decision sometime soon on whether the
president can fire somebody on the
Federal Reserve Board without specific
cause. So, that's kind of off the table
until we do. There are legal questions
about what happens if Powell's term ends
as chair of the Board of Governors
and that might be fought out in the
courts. But he would stay on as FOMC
chair, the interest rate
setting panel because they've already
decided that he would do that and that's
not subject to the president's
decisions. Of course, we get Kevin
Warsh's confirmation hearing next week
after he finally got his paperwork in.
Part of the reason for the delay is he's
got a lot of money and he had a very
complicated financial disclosure form.
But there's no vote scheduled yet
because Senator Tom Tillis is still
holding out saying the probe has to end
uh
the Justice Department probe has to end
before he would vote in favor of Kevin
Warsh. And we heard just last night that
the Justice Department showed up at the
Federal Reserve and tried to go into the
buildings to do an ex- exploration, and
the Fed Fed's lawyers told him, "No, you
can't do that." Uh
you you have to have a subpoena, and the
subpoena was quashed by the judge. So,
the battle on that still goes on. Um
there will be some interesting questions
for Powell next uh for uh Kevin Warsh
next week, of course.
The biggest one is is he going to work
for Donald Trump, or is he going to work
for the Fed? In other words, is his
priority cutting interest rates over
everything else? Uh and if he's going to
wait and see what the data tell him,
when would rate cuts be appropriate? Uh
he wants to change the Fed's balance
sheet, so I'm sure there'll be questions
on that. And then, of course, his own
$190 million-plus balance sheet, and
that only is his money. Uh his wife is a
billionaire, so there is uh quite a bit
of questions about um whether that will
influence any of his decisions. So, it's
going to be a big week next week, and
we're still waiting on the Lisa Cook
case to see where that takes.
>> Mike, just what are you implying in just
that last line?
That last line, what are you implying?
That somehow he would set policy to
benefit himself because he has $200
million. dollars.
Well, it's not so much that. It's that
uh he he policy could inadvertently help
him or his wife because uh the holdings
are so vast. Now, he has said as part of
his disclosure that he will recuse
himself from anything that could
possibly affect uh his portfolio, which
he would uh for the most part sell off,
but affect uh the Estee Lauder
companies, which is where his wife gets
uh her money from. So, uh it's a
question about, you know, how do you
manage something that is uh so big in
your own portfolio and stay out of
trouble? Interesting. Mike, thank you.
Thanks for breaking that down.
Appreciate it, as always. Fed to say
married well, right?
>> Yes, exactly.
As Mike's talking, it's like his
paperwork was so delayed because of so
much money because he married well. I
don't [laughter] think that's a man who
needs to work for anyone, right? Never
mind the president.
>> Well, and this is the reason why I think
some people would say, "Okay, he's fine.
He's the He's going to be the Fed chair
and he'll be relatively independent." I
feel like this is sort of a normal
pathway. You get enough to be
independently wealthy before you take
the salary of a Fed chair.
>> Chairman Powell also independently
wealthy.
>> it's pretty much that's a nice pathway.
My son said to me the other night, he's
like, "What about me?" And I'm like,
"Yeah, you
you go, too."
>> Oh, he wants to be the Fed chair? I
think more trajectory.
All [laughter] right.
He's got big plans.
I was like, "Yeah, good luck to you.
Maybe, maybe, maybe just graduate from
high school first." I imagine that's
possible
>> [laughter]
>> for him. All right. Well, please I hope
he tells us big. Please don't inflate
your ego. I imagine he gets some.
Go for it. You go for it. Pooja Sriram
of Barclays writing this, "We think
there is a likely enough support in the
Senate for Walsh's nomination to
proceed. The path for a timely
confirmation, however, seems narrow."
Pooja joins us now from Wall. Pooja,
good morning. Good to see you. Good
morning. Let's get into this. So, we've
had all these attacks on the Federal
Reserve. Have you seen any real credible
effect on the operational autonomy of
the Federal Reserve that's really harmed
them?
Actually taken place. Never mind the
risk of it happening. Have you actually
seen it happening? Not at all.
I think so far it just seems that this
is background noise, unnecessary noise
that, you know, Chair- Chairman Powell
is is having to deal with.
But, you know, we we listen to the FOMC
members closely. We read the minutes. It
it doesn't seem to have affected how
they're functioning.
I think what this does is this constant
attack. And and like, you know, we said
that, you know, the path for
you know, Walsh's nomination was already
quite narrow in the first place. you
have this attack. And, you know, as as
Michael McKee just pointed out, it sort
of creates a potential roadblock for
that happening in time. And so, you
know, it it's political, no doubt. And
it could get messy.
>> Has it changed how you think about
leadership of the Federal Reserve and
what a Chairman Powell Fed looks like
compared to a Chairman Kevin Warsh Fed?
Well, yeah, I mean, we do know, um, you
know, how Warsh thinks in terms of, you
know, he's he's more hawkish on the
balance sheet, uh, but there is an
inclination for him to cut rates. So,
you know, he is perhaps, you know, one
more, uh, dovish member to to come on
board, but we've we've always held the
view that, you know, irrespective of
whose Fed chair, one person cannot, um,
entirely influence monetary policy. And
so, I think that the big job of a Fed
chair is to build consensus, and you
need to have credibility to do that. One
of the most amazing aspects of all of
this, whether it's Fed independence,
whether it's a commodity shock, whether
it's the fact that inflation has not
been at the 2% target or below the 2%
target for more than 5 years, is that
inflation expectations are incredibly
anchored. They are. If you take a look
at 5-year 5-year breakeven rates,
they've pre-fired at 2.2%. Oh, horror.
You know, like this question of what are
we looking at right now? Do you think
that this is stable and that this is
faith in the Fed or do you think that
this is just simply complacency? No, I
think this, um, to to a large extent
reflects Fed credibility.
Um, and, you know, forget the markets.
Um, you look at consumer surveys, right?
And you think about the average consumer
and what inflation expectations they're
pricing in, we're not seeing the
longer-run expectations move up there,
either. So, I think so far, there seems
to be a belief that this energy price
shock is going to be, you know, to use
that word, transitory, um, and then, you
know, hopefully things pass over. But I
think the longer this continues is when
consumers, the average consumer, starts
getting worried. To preserve the Fed's
credibility, do they have to move to
more of an arrange a 2 to 3% inflation
range rather than the 2% target that
they haven't met in, uh, more than half
a decade? No, I I think they're going to
be extremely hesitant to make any
changes on that front. I think the the
idea would be for them to perhaps, you
know, keep rates more restrictive if
they're seeing signs of inflation, you
know, remaining sticky or elevated. One
thing that sort of worked in favor of
their current policy stance is, like you
said, inflation expectations. The other
thing is, sure, I mean, you look at the
annual numbers, they're elevated, but
you look at the monthly prints. I mean,
core CPI has been surprising, you know,
to the downside for, you know, I want to
say at least 10 out of the last 11
months.
Um, and so those outcomes are something
that they will likely sort of take
signal from. The other thing I would say
is, you know, if you sort of break down
inflation into core goods and shelter
and then the core services ex-shelter,
the sort of framework the Fed likes to
follow, core goods surely has moved up
in 2025. You can say that's a tariff
story. And, you know, by our estimates,
we think that's about to wind down. You
know, much of the tariff pass-through
has come through, and we don't expect
any incremental inflation on on that
front. Shelter is, in fact, in
disinflation. It's a good, you know,
chunky part of CPI, so that's, you know,
doing a lot of the heavy lifting. And
then core services ex-shelter, you know,
a bit sticky, but it's still sort of
moving in the right direction. So, you
know, if if you're the Fed and you're
watching that, um, you could be hop-
hopeful that things are moving the right
direction.
>> Under Kevin Warsh, I think there's going
to be real conversation about train-
changing how they target inflation,
maybe to target a range instead, cuz
it's something the Treasury Secretary
has spoken about prior. Yeah, I mean, we
don't have a view on what, you know,
whether he intends to do that, whether
he, you know, can do it so quickly. I
think when he comes in as Fed chair, um,
I think it it's it's likely to be status
quo initially before he can sort of
build consensus, get more people on
board. Um, we think that the the the
thing that he might want to do first is
something on the balance sheet front
rather than, you know, you know, we've
been asked about Fed communications.
Um, we don't think that that's on his
priority list.
>> Get rid of the dots, you know, get rid
of the dot plot. I think people have
been talking about that for ages,
haven't they? Why not just take the
opportunity? Just dump the thing. You
know what? That would be sad for me,
because I remember
because when the dots came out, I
remember a newsroom had dot cupcakes and
people would come out with different
cupcakes with different dots in
different places.
>> that sad.
>> Yeah. I'll get you a cupcake.
>> I think I think I think [laughter] it's
lovely. I think it's really sweet. They
were they were they were blue. They were
blue dots. That the only time anyone
brought in cakes.
We'll talk about this another time. All
right.
>> On the couch.
>> Have a little session. Exactly.
>> Pleasure to good to see you. Thank you.
Pleasure to see you around there at
Barclays. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere. That's sad. With your
Bloomberg brief, Yohara tomorrow. Hey
Yohara.
>> Hey John. Mediators between the US and
Iran are moving closer to extending the
ongoing ceasefire [music] before it
expires next week. The AP reporting
Washington and Tehran had given a quote
in principle agreement to extend [music]
the truce allowing for more diplomacy.
President Donald Trump warning Fed Chair
Jay Powell that he will be fired should
he not leave his position on by May
[music] 15th. The president adding that
he has no plans on dropping the DOJ
probe on Powell and the renovations
[music]
on the Fed building.
And Starbucks and OpenAI are teaming up.
The coffee giant launching a new beta
app in ChatGPT [music]
today. Customers can type at Starbucks
in ChatGPT to discover [music] and
customize their drink before finishing
checkout on the company's app or website
or just go in store. [music] That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. It would be
easier. Yohara, thank you. Appreciate
it. And next on the program, we'll set
you up for the day ahead. Plus we'll
catch up with Brent Schutte of
Northwestern Mutual Wealth Management
with stocks hovering very close to
record [music] highs.
I think that the US is a clear winner
here when it comes to [music] the spike
in oil prices. Inflation expectations in
the near term obviously are rising. But
if you look further into the future,
whether you look at the December 26 oil
contract that's trading in the 70s, or
if you're looking at five-year five-year
forward inflation expectations, those
things really aren't moving. Inflation
expectations are super anchored. That
was Phil Camporeale of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Lisa, you said it earlier,
we've said it repeatedly [music] on this
program. Despite everything that's been
thrown at this institution, the Federal
Reserve, the criticism from the White
House, the oil price shock in the Middle
East, somehow
inflation expectations are super
anchored.
>> Which is the reason why Phil Camporeale
is going to die on the hill of 60/40
continuing to reassert itself because
ultimately that downside protection
still is in the bond market. And that's
ultimately one of the key questions
given the positive correlation so far
this year that I've been noticing.
>> It wasn't much fun in March. Let's put
it that way. It really wasn't.
>> It's It's the 2022 playbook that burned
so many people and that PTSD
I still kind of feel it, but I guess
other people have moved on. Moved on
quickly. This equity market moved on
very fast. Prematurely? We'll find out,
but moved on very quickly. Equities up
again this morning by 10th of 1% [music]
and going into the cash open about 42
minutes from now, very close to all-time
highs. As we count you down to the open
about your trading day for the week
ahead and into next week looks like
this. At 1:00 p.m. Eastern time, a White
House press briefing. At 2:00 p.m. the
Fed's [music] Beige Book. Thursday,
we'll have another round of jobless
claims and earnings from Netflix.
Looking ahead to next week, Senate
confirmation hearing for Fed chair
nominee Kevin [music] Warsh taking place
on Tuesday, or at least set to take
place on Tuesday next week.
>> Yeah, I was thinking [music] maybe
because ultimately Thom Tillis really
does hold the keys over a lot of these
machinations about the hearing because
he has said he is going to oppose this
hearing. He is going to prevent Kevin
Warsh, who he supports, from getting
even confirmed because of the ongoing
probe into the Fed's construction.
>> The president [music] wants to see Kevin
Warsh confirmed. He appointed him, of
course he does. Wants to see that
happen. He also wants the [music] DOJ
probe to continue and the Fed chair, the
current one, to get off the board.
Those two, three things don't line up
right now because of the [music] player
you mentioned, Senator Thom Tillis of
North Carolina, and the chairman of the
Federal Reserve, the current one right
now, who said himself [music]
that the investigation is ongoing, he's
not going anywhere. Yes, so at the
moment basically you're going to have a
standstill until someone blinks. Is it
going to be Senator [music] Tillis or
potentially is there a way you can get
it through the floor with a number of
senators voting basically via discharge
position or the DOJ drops that probe. I
don't see that happening. But this could
just live in the hearing. [music]
Senator Tillis I think will be happy to
have the hearing. It's just whether or
not there will be a vote to get Kevin
Warsh out of the hearing onto the Senate
floor. It's a [music] story for next
week in the here and now very close to
all-time highs on the S&P 500. Brent
Schutte of Northwestern Mutual writing
the following, "Investors have taken
comfort in strong earnings forecast for
2026. Commentary in the coming weeks
will be crucial in validating how
businesses are truly navigating current
inflation and higher energy costs."
Brent joins us now for more. Brent,
welcome. Are you convinced that we'll be
validated, we'll get that validation
from the C-suite in the coming weeks?
I am not yet convinced. I think the
reality is that investors have focused
more on those strong earnings kind of as
a security blanket. So kind of a
tiebreaker because the economic data has
been a bit mixed.
But in the interim, they focus more on
the fact that the ceasefire has held and
there's this belief that President Trump
values the equity markets and that if he
has the opportunity, he will pull back.
Plus those earnings expectations, which
analysts are usually slow to mark them
down. And so that's where I think they
focus on the strong earnings that are
out there right now and the
expectations. But let's hear what
company executives have to say about how
they're navigating the future. I think
that will set the tone certainly for the
next few days and weeks as we look
ahead. So Brent, we know what the
calendar looks like for earnings. Which
sectors, which pockets of this equity
market are you not comfortable with at
the moment and you're waiting to hear
from management teams?
You know, I I I think investors have bid
back up the markets and they've gone
back to their old favorites. They've
gone back to the things that had worked
um for much of the past 3 years. They've
gone back to non-profitable tech uh
ironically. Uh they've gone back to the
Mag 7. If you do believe that the
economy is going to continue to push
along and that the uh conflict will pull
back and that will be just fine, you
want to go back to what was in place
prior to that where you saw this
broadening that was occurring into small
and mid-cap stocks uh which started
basically back in October of last year
when five of the seven Mag Seven names
actually announced earnings. The Fed cut
rates and investors started thinking
about a broadening economy pushing
forward. That's where I focus more on
the long term because I think the
shorter term is a bit uncertain, uh but
certainly with the chance of a pullback
overall just given the fact that the
economy is still showing signs of
weakness despite the comments about
resilience.
How much are are you seeing a change
though in overall backdrop based on
what's happened in Iran, what's ongoing
in Iran, and the expectation that
commodity prices are going to remain
higher for longer? Do you think that
nothing materially has changed that
potentially favor big tech, say, over
mid and small-cap stocks?
This This is where I I think if you look
at this quarter, it was expected to grow
around 3% we started it because of the
impacts of the one big beautiful bill,
the deferred spending from the
government uh that shut down in Q4, plus
the monetary policy stimulus that we
received last quarter. And this is where
I I think that is what's held the
economy in there. Uh and I think that
stimulus will still be there if we can
get past the conflict. And that's where
I do believe if the conflict does pull
back, if interest rates remain
well-behaved, which I think is even more
important than oil, I think people are
kind of missing that uh interest rate
commentary a little bit. If that
happens, that's where you will see this
broadening that was occurring prior to
that. And this is where I like, as a
strategist, having a couple different
outs. I like being in things that are
cheaper and underappreciated. And that's
where if you look at earnings estimates
going forward, uh the forward 12-month
earnings estimates on uh the S&P 600 is
around 17 and 1/2% and you're paying 15
to 14 15 times for that versus the S&P
500, which is a similar 17% growth rate,
but you're paying 21 22 times for that.
I like having valuation on my side of
the trade because it can bail me out. Um
I don't have to think about the next
three or four months. I think a little
bit longer term. And that's where I like
the setup there just a bit more uh from
the standpoint of where I think a value
is and where in the longer term. You
talked about rates commentary, so let's
go there. There's a question about what
the direction of the Federal Reserve is
going to look like under new leadership
potentially and the brouhaha that's view
brewing in the latest soap opera down in
Washington D.C. over the new Fed chair.
How closely are you paying attention to
this and whether the Fed the the
president's going to drop the probe into
the Fed's construction or renovations
and whether he could get Kevin Warsh in
the seat by May?
I think it's one of those things that's
still out there that um beyond the
conflict, you still have the questions
over what happens with Kevin Warsh when
he and if he does become Fed president
uh and what happens with the president's
wishes versus what the market is pricing
in right now. You have the midterm
elections coming up and you have
tariffs, which probably uh which
currently have come down the past few
months as the
came off, but they're I think going to
go back up in the future. And so I think
there are still plenty of things to
worry about. I think the biggest
commentary that people are are missing
just a bit, which I heard the
conversation that you just had about
inflation expectations uh in the Federal
Reserve. Look, we haven't been as you
mentioned at the Fed's 2% target for
five years. And it's been a series of
excuses. It was COVID, then it was
tariffs, then it was oil and it was
transitory. At what point do people
start believing this is more of a
permanent thing and at what point does
that begin being priced into the market?
And that's where I think you see that
risk. On the opposite side, you still
have the labor market, which has
recovered the past two months or three
months, but if you look at the hiring
the last year since the beginning of
2025, it's all been in more in health
services, one narrow segment. And so I
think there are still risk out there,
but I do think if you look intermediate
to longer term and start thinking about
that, that's where regardless of these
risk, I like things that are cheaper. I
like things that are under-invested, and
that's where I would still focus more on
those small and mid-cap stocks. And I
also think that investors need to think
about the 60/40,
you need to own some commodities,
something that we have owned for much of
the past 5, 6, 7 years. That's where I
think there are two-sided risk going
forward, not one-sided like existed for
the past 15, 20 years, where it was just
hedged by using long Treasuries. Now I
need to I think you need to think about
inflation being more permanent, maybe
tied back to that Kevin Warsh commentary
and where the president would like
monetary policy to go. Interesting.
Brent, you're class act. We appreciate
your time. Brent Schutte there of
Northwestern Mutual Wealth Management.
One of the last lines there on inflation
being above target for the last 5 years,
I think it's really important. The
chairman was asked about the supply-side
shocks that we've seen, and I would have
to say in the news conference they were
almost dismissed as just something that
was happening out there that we couldn't
control. Some of these supply-side
shocks have been choices. They've been
more frequent, and some of them have
been choices, which is why some people
think they're going to see more in to
come in the future, and this is
something you've got to adapt to as an
institution, not just sit here and say
it's come out of nowhere. We can't do
anything about it. And frankly, there is
a structural incentive for nations and
for companies to build up their concept
of security and independence, and what
that requires is investment and more
commodities, more of the industrial
renaissance that some people were
talking about, which leads to higher
prices, higher costs that are embedded
in the system because of all of these
choices, as you say. So this does change
the backdrop a bit.
>> has also decided to make a choice to
basically accept inflation at 3%, not 2.
They made that choice. That's been the
story of the last 5 years for sure, and
has certainly not been
the objective of this Fed to damage this
economy to get inflation down to 2%.
We've [music] certainly not seen that
with Chairman Powell. Programming note
for you coming up a little bit later
this morning 10:45 Eastern time. Bramo
catching up with Ted Pick at Morgan
Stanley. Look out for that. Tomorrow
ramping up coverage from Washington D.C.
We'll catch up with Max Kanto of HSBC,
[music] the Barclays CEO C.S.
Venkatakrishnan and the former New York
Fed President Bill Dudley and the
Franklin Templeton CEO [music] Jenny
Johnson.